28185006
Hair follicle stem cell proliferation, Akt and Wnt signaling activation in TPA-induced hair regeneration.
Regeneration of hair follicles relies on activation of hair follicle stem cells during telogen to anagen transition process in hair cycle. This process is rigorously controlled by intrinsic and environmental factors. 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), a tumor promoter, accelerates reentry of hair follicles into anagen phase. However, it is unclear that how TPA promotes the hair regeneration. In the present study, we topically applied TPA onto the dorsal skin of 2-month-old C57BL/6 female mice to examine the activity of hair follicle stem cells and alteration of signaling pathways during hair regeneration. We found that refractory telogen hair follicles entered anagen prematurely after TPA treatment, with the enhanced proliferation of CD34-positive hair follicle stem cells. Meanwhile, we observed Akt signaling was activated in epidermis, hair infundibulum, bulge and hair bulb, and Wnt signaling was also activated after hair follicle stem cells proliferation. Importantly, after overexpression of DKK1, a specific Wnt signaling inhibitor, the accelerated reentry of hair follicles into anagen induced by TPA was abolished. Our data indicated that TPA-induced hair follicle regeneration is associated with activation of Akt and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling.

28418107
A new path in defining light parameters for hair growth: Discovery and modulation of photoreceptors in human hair follicle.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Though devices for hair growth based on low levels of light have shown encouraging results, further improvements of their efficacy is impeded by a lack of knowledge on the exact molecular targets that mediate physiological response in skin and hair follicle. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of selected light-sensitive receptors in the human hair follicle and to study the impact of UV-free blue light on hair growth ex vivo. MATERIAL AND METHODS: The expression of Opsin receptors in human skin and hair follicles has been characterized using RT-qPCR and immunofluorescence approaches. The functional significance of Opsin 3 was assessed by silencing its expression in the hair follicle cells followed by a transcriptomic profiling. Proprietary LED-based devices emitting two discrete visible wavelengths were used to access the effects of selected optical parameters on hair growth ex vivo and outer root sheath cells in vitro. RESULTS: The expression of OPN2 (Rhodopsin) and OPN3 (Panopsin, Encephalopsin) was detected in the distinct compartments of skin and anagen hair follicle. Treatment with 3.2 J/cm2 of blue light with 453 nm central wavelength significantly prolonged anagen phase in hair follicles ex vivo that was correlated with sustained proliferation in the light-treated samples. In contrast, hair follicle treatment with 3.2 J/cm2 of 689 nm light (red light) did not significantly affect hair growth ex vivo. Silencing of OPN3 in the hair follicle outer root sheath cells resulted in the altered expression of genes involved in the control of proliferation and apoptosis, and abrogated stimulatory effects of blue light (3.2 J/cm2 ; 453 nm) on proliferation in the outer root sheath cells. CONCLUSIONS: We provide the first evidence that (i) OPN2 and OPN3 are expressed in human hair follicle, and (ii) A 453 nm blue light at low radiant exposure exerts a positive effect on hair growth ex vivo, potentially via interaction with OPN3. Lasers Surg. Med. 49:705-718, 2017.   2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

30242252
The intragenic mRNA-microRNA regulatory network during telogen-anagen hair follicle transition in the cashmere goat.
It is widely accepted that the periodic cycle of hair follicles is controlled by the biological clock, but the molecular regulatory mechanisms of the hair follicle cycle have not been thoroughly studied. The secondary hair follicle of the cashmere goat is characterized by seasonal periodic changes throughout life. In the hair follicle cycle, the initiation of hair follicles is of great significance for hair follicle regeneration. To provide a reference for hair follicle research, our study compared differences in mRNA expression and microRNA expression during the growth and repose stages of cashmere goat skin samples. Through microRNA and mRNA association analysis, we found microRNAs and target genes that play major regulatory roles in hair follicle initiation. We further constructed an mRNA-microRNA interaction network and found that hair follicle initiation and development were related to MiR-195 and the genes CHP1, SMAD2, FZD6 and SIAH1.

30521888
Identification and molecular analysis of a lncRNA-HOTAIR transcript from secondary hair follicle of cashmere goat reveal integrated regulatory network with the expression regulated potentially by its promoter methylation.
The HOTAIR transcript is transcribed from the antisense strand within the HOXC gene cluster, and it is thought to play a role in regulating the inductive capacity of dermal papilla cells during the reconstruction of hair-follicle. In the current investigation, we firstly isolated and characterized a lncRNA-HOTAIR transcript from the secondary hair follicle of cashmere goat. Also, we analyzed its transcriptional pattern and methylation level of HOTAIR gene promoter in secondary hair follicle of cashmere goat during anagen and telogen stages. Nucleotide composition analysis indicated that the contents of Adenine (A) and Thymine (T) are higher than that of Guanine (G) and Cytosine (C) in lncRNA-HOTAIR transcript of cashmere goat with the highest frequency distribution of AG nucleotide pair (8.06%). The regulatory network analysis showed a directly or indirectly complex regulatory relationships between lncRNA-HOTAIR of cashmere goat and its potential target molecules: miRNAs, mRNAs and proteins. Also, we showed that lncRNA-HOTAIR was properly transcribed at both anagen and telogen stages of secondary hair follicle of cashmere goat with the anagen being significantly higher than telogen in its expression, which suggest that lncRNA-HOTAIR transcript might be involved in the reconstruction of secondary hair follicle with the formation and growth of cashmere fiber. Taken together with methylation analysis of HOTAIR gene promoter, our data suggest that the promoter methylation of HOTAIR gene most likely is involved in its transcriptional suppression in secondary hair follicle of cashmere goat.

30638933
Sox13 is a novel early marker for hair follicle development.
Sox13, a group D member of the Sry-related high-mobility group box (Sox) transcription factor family, is expressed in various tissues including the hair follicle. However, its spatiotemporal expression patterns in the hair follicle and its role in hair development remain to be elucidated. To address these questions, we generated Sox13-LacZ-knock-in mice (Sox13LacZ/+), in which the LacZ reporter gene was inserted in-frame into exon 2, which contains the translation initiation codon. X-gal staining in Sox13LacZ/+ embryos revealed that Sox13 is initially expressed in the epithelial portion of the placode, and subsequently in the hair germ and the hair peg during early hair follicle development. In postnatal catagen and anagen, Sox13 was detected in the epithelial sheath, whereas in telogen, Sox13 was localized in the bulge region, where hair follicle stem cells reside. Immunohistochemistry with an anti-beta-galactosidase antibody and anti-hair keratin antibodies that specifically mark the different layers of the hair follicle revealed that Sox13 was predominantly expressed in the outer root sheath in anagen. However, the integumentary structures of Sox13LacZ/LacZ mice were grossly and histologically indistinguishable from those of wild type mice. These results suggest that although Sox13 is dispensable for epidermal and adnexal development, Sox13 is a useful marker for early hair follicle development.

30779940
Comparative study on seasonal hair follicle cycling by analysis of the transcriptomes from cashmere and milk goats.
Guard hair and cashmere undercoat are developed from primary and secondary hair follicle, respectively. Little is known about the gene expression differences between primary and secondary hair follicle cycling. In this study, we obtained RNA-seq data from cashmere and milk goats grown at four different seasons. We studied the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) during the yearly hair follicle cycling, and between cashmere and milk goats. WNT, NOTCH, MAPK, BMP, TGFbeta and Hedgehog signaling pathways were involved in hair follicle cycling in both cashmere and milk goat. However, Milk goat DEGs between different months were significantly more than cashmere goat DEGs, with the largest difference being identified in December. Some expression dynamics were confirmed by quantitative PCR and western blot, and immunohistochemistry. This study offers new information sources related to hair follicle cycling in milk and cashmere goats, which could be applicable to improve the wool production and quality.

30930146
A Subset of TREM2+ Dermal Macrophages Secretes Oncostatin M to Maintain Hair Follicle Stem Cell Quiescence and Inhibit Hair Growth.
Hair growth can be induced from resting mouse hair follicles by topical application of JAK inhibitors, suggesting that JAK-STAT signaling is required for maintaining hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) in a quiescent state. Here, we show that Oncostatin M (OSM), an IL-6 family cytokine, negatively regulates hair growth by signaling through JAK-STAT5 to maintain HFSC quiescence. Genetic deletion of the OSM receptor or STAT5 can induce premature HFSC activation, suggesting that the resting telogen stage is actively maintained by the hair follicle niche. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that the OSM source is not intrinsic to the hair follicle itself and is instead a subset of TREM2+ macrophages that is enriched within the resting follicle and deceases immediately prior to HFSC activation. In vivo inhibition of macrophage function was sufficient to induce HFSC proliferation and hair cycle induction. Together these results clarify how JAK-STAT signaling actively inhibits hair growth.

30970537
Sustained Human Hair Follicle Growth Ex Vivo in a Glycosaminoglycan Hydrogel Matrix.
Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and associated proteoglycans have important functions in homeostatic maintenance and regenerative processes (e.g., wound repair) of the skin. However, little is known about the role of these molecules in the regulation of the hair follicle cycle. Here we report that growing human hair follicles ex vivo in a defined GAG hydrogel mimicking the dermal matrix strongly promotes sustained cell survival and maintenance of a highly proliferative phenotype in the hair bulb and suprabulbar regions. This significant effect is associated with the activation of WNT/beta-catenin signaling targets (CCDN1, AXIN2) and with the expression of stem cell markers (CK15, CD34) and growth factors implicated in the telogen/anagen transition (TGFbeta2, FGF10). As a whole, these results point to the dermal GAG matrix as an important component in the regulation of the human hair follicle growth cycle, and to GAG-based hydrogels as potentially relevant modulators of this process both in vitro and in vivo.

31383286
Expression of anti-aging type-XVII collagen (COL17A1/BP180) in hair follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells during differentiation.
Hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells reside in the upper part of the bulge area of the the hair follicle. HAP stem cells are nestin-positive and keratin 15-negative and have the capacity to differentiate into various types of cells in vitro. HAP stem cells are also involved in nerve and spinal cord regeneration in mouse models. Recently, it was shown that the DNA-damage response in non-HAP hair follicle stem cells induces proteolysis of type-XVII collagen (COL17A1/BP180), which is involved in hair-follicle stem-cell maintenance. COL17A1 proteolysis stimulated hair-follicle stem-cell aging, characterized by the loss of stemness signatures and hair-follicle miniaturization associated with androgenic alopecia. In the present study, we demonstrate that HAP stem cells co-express nestin and COL17A1 in vitro and in vivo. The expression of HAP stem cell markers (nestin and SSEA1) increased after HAP stem-cell colonies were formed, then decreased after differentiation to epidermal keratinocytes. In contrast COL17A1 increased after differentiation to epidermal keratinocytes. These results suggest that COL17A1 is important in differentiation of HAP stem cells.

31397397
Experimental study and clinical observations of autologous hair follicle cell transplants to treat stable vitiligo.
Background: Vitiligo is characterized by the loss and/or dysfunction of melanocytes in the skin and has a profound impact on the social interactions of patients. Although there are many treatment options for vitiligo, the outcome is frequently unsatisfactory, especially for patients with stable vitiligo. Objectives: To study the biological properties of melanocytes derived from human hair follicles and to observe the efficacy of using transplants of autologous hair follicle cells to treat patients with stable vitiligo. Methods: From February 2014 to March 2017, 26 patients with stable vitiligo, who were refractory to all current routine therapy, underwent treatment with transplanted autologous hair follicle cells. The skin graft from each patient's occipital region was trimmed to remove excess adipose tissue and some of the upper part of the dermis. The remaining tissue, including hair follicles and dermal papillae, was cut into pieces and incubated in collagenase type IV and then in trypsin-ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid solutions. The cells were recovered, resuspended in the patient's own serum and then applied to the recipient area. Clinical observations continued for 6 months to 1 year. Laboratory experiments were also performed during this time on scalp specimens obtained from normal human volunteers. Cells migrating from the outer root sheath and the dermal papillae at various times of culture were observed using a microscope. Results: Most of the repigmentation in the vitiligo areas appeared within 8 weeks of transplantation of autologous hair follicle cells. Early skin repigmentation was not uniform and appeared more repigmented than the surrounding normal skin. As time went by, the repigmentation became more obvious and matched the color of the skin around the lesion. Most of the pigmentation presented as a diffuse pattern and was not localized around the hair follicles. Among the 26 patients, 9 (34.6%) achieved excellent repigmentation, while 13 (50.0%) had good, 3 (11.5%) fair and 1 (3.9%) poor repigmentation. During the follow-up visit at 1 year, no excess hair growth was observed in the recipient areas and there was no scarring or ulcer formation in the donor or recipient areas. In the experimental part of the study, many keratinocytes, melanocytes and fibroblasts migrated from the adherent outer root sheath. In later subcultures using a specialized medium, pure melanocytes were obtained that had a strong proliferative capacity and had bipolar or poly-dendritic shapes. On the other hand, cells from the dermal papillae grew radially in primary culture and were almost fibroblast-like. However, a few bipolar melanocytes appeared in the later stage of culture. Conclusions: The results of our study show that transplantation of autologous hair follicle cells is a simple and effective method to treat patients with stable vitiligo. Hair follicles (especially the outer root sheath) harbor many melanocytes with potential proliferative ability. Limitations: There are a few limitations of the present study: a small sample size, a short follow-up period, no cell counting or viability testing.

31676413
Defining Transcriptional Signatures of Human Hair Follicle Cell States.
The epidermis and its appendage, the hair follicle, represent an elegant developmental system in which cells are replenished with regularity because of controlled proliferation, lineage specification, and terminal differentiation. Although transcriptome data exists for human epidermal and dermal cells, the hair follicle remains poorly characterized. Through single-cell resolution profiling of the epidermis and anagen hair follicle, we characterized the anatomical, transcriptional, functional, and pathological profiles of distinct epidermal, hair follicle, and hair follicle-associated cell subpopulations including melanocytes, endothelial cells, and immune cells. We additionally traced the differentiation trajectory of interfollicular and matrix cell progenitors and explored the association of specific cell subpopulations to known molecular signatures of common skin conditions. These data simultaneously corroborate prior murine and human studies while offering new insights into epidermal and hair follicle differentiation and pathogenesis.

31802614
Platelet sonicates activate hair follicle stem cells and mediate enhanced hair follicle regeneration.
An increasing number of studies show that platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is effective for androgenic alopecia (AGA). However, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms along with its effect on hair follicle stem cells are poorly understood. In this study, we designed to induce platelets in PRP to release factors by calcium chloride (PC) or by sonication where platelet lysates (PS) or the supernatants of platelet lysate (PSS) were used to evaluate their effect on the hair follicle activation and regeneration. We found that PSS and PS exhibited a superior effect in activating telogen hair follicles than PC. In addition, PSS injection into the skin activated quiescent hair follicles and induced K15+ hair follicle stem cell proliferation in K14-H2B-GFP mice. Moreover, PSS promoted skin-derived precursor (SKP) survival in vitro and enhanced hair follicle formation in vivo. In consistence, protein array analysis of different PRP preparations revealed that PSS contained higher levels of 16 growth factors (out of 41 factors analysed) than PC, many of them have been known to promote hair follicle regeneration. Thus, our data indicate that sonicated PRP promotes hair follicle stem cell activation and de novo hair follicle regeneration.

31847849
Alcohol extract from Vernonia anthelmintica willd (L.) seed counteracts stress-induced murine hair follicle growth inhibition.
BACKGROUND: Vernonia anthelmintica (L.) willd is a traditional urgur herb in China for a long history. Its alcohol extract (AVE) has been proved to promote hair follicle growth in C57BL/6 mice. We conducted this study to investigate the hair-growth effects of AVE in stressed mice and its possible mechanism of action. METHODS: The hair-follicle growth effects of AVE were examined by in vivo and in vitro study. We exposed C57BL/6 male mice to chronic restraint stress to induce murine hair follicle growth inhibition. The effects of AVE were examined by histological analysis, immunofluorescence for Ki67 and cytokeratin 19 immunoreactivity, western blot assay in tyrosinase and related proteins expressions and immunofluorescence for nerve fibers. In organ culture of mouse vibrissae follicles, we used substance P as a catagen-inducing factor of hair follicle growth, and measured the elongation of hair shafts and expression of neurokinin-1 receptor protein by application of AVE. RESULTS: Our results showed that AVE counteract murine hair follicle growth inhibition caused by chronic restraint stress via inducing the conversion of telogen to anagen and inhibiting catagen premature, increasing bulb keratinocytes and bulge stem cells proliferation, promoting melanogenesis, and reducing the numbers of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide nerve fibers. Furthermore, AVE also counteracted murine hair follicle growth inhibition caused by substance P in organ culture. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that AVE counteract stress-induced hair follicle growth inhibition in C57BL/6 mice in vivo and in vitro, and may be an effective new candidate for treatment of stress-induced hair loss.

31856904
Pre-aggregation of scalp progenitor dermal and epidermal stem cells activates the WNT pathway and promotes hair follicle formation in in vitro and in vivo systems.
BACKGROUND: Billions of dollars are invested annually by pharmaceutical companies in search of new options for treating hair loss conditions; nevertheless, the challenge remains. One major limitation to hair follicle research is the lack of effective and efficient drug screening systems using human cells. Organoids, three-dimensional in vitro structures derived from stem cells, provide new opportunities for studying organ development, tissue regeneration, and disease pathogenesis. The present study focuses on the formation of human hair follicle organoids. METHODS: Scalp-derived dermal progenitor cells mixed with foreskin-derived epidermal stem cells at a 2:1 ratio aggregated in suspension to form hair follicle-like organoids, which were confirmed by immunostaining of hair follicle markers and by molecular dye labeling assays to analyze dermal and epidermal cell organization in those organoids. The hair-forming potential of organoids was examined using an in vivo transplantation assay. RESULTS: Pre-aggregation of dermal and epidermal cells enhanced hair follicle formation in vivo. In vitro pre-aggregation initiated the interactions of epidermal and dermal progenitor cells resulting in activation of the WNT pathway and the formation of pear-shape structures, named type I aggregates. Cell-tracing analysis showed that the dermal and epidermal cells self-assembled into distinct epidermal and dermal compartments. Histologically, the type I aggregates expressed early hair follicle markers, suggesting the hair peg-like phase of hair follicle morphogenesis. The addition of recombinant WNT3a protein to the medium enhanced the formation of these aggregates, and the Wnt effect could be blocked by the WNT inhibitor, IWP2. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our system supports the rapid formation of a large number of hair follicle organoids (type I aggregates). This system provides a platform for studying epithelial-mesenchymal interactions, for assessing inductive hair stem cells and for screening compounds that support hair follicle regeneration.

31876379
Tissue engineering strategies for human hair follicle regeneration: How far from a hairy goal?
"The demand for an efficient therapy for alopecia disease has fueled the hair research field in recent decades. However, despite significant improvements in the knowledge of key processes of hair follicle biology such as genesis and cycling, translation into hair follicle replacement therapies has not occurred. Great expectation has been recently put on hair follicle bioengineering, which is based on the development of fully functional hair follicles with cycling activity from an expanded population of hair-inductive (trichogenic) cells. Most bioengineering approaches focus on in vitro reconstruction of folliculogenesis by manipulating key regulatory molecular/physical features of hair follicle growth/cycling in vivo. Despite their great potential, no cell-based product is clinically available for hair regeneration therapy to date. This is mainly due to demanding issues that still hinder the functionality of cultured human hair cells. The present review comprehensively compares emergent strategies using different cell sources and tissue engineering approaches, aiming to successfully achieve a clinical cure for hair loss. The hurdles of these strategies are discussed, as well as the future directions to overcome the obstacles and fulfill the promise of a hairy feat."

32037580
EGFL6 expression in hair follicle central isthmus is dependent on the presence of terminal Schwann cells.
Hair follicle central isthmus is surrounded by dense nerve endings and terminal Schwann cells (TSCs), forming a specialized sensory structure called lanceolate complexes. Extracellular matrix protein EGFL6 expressed from epidermis has been found closely associated with lanceolate complexes and important for proper alignment of nerve fibres and TSCs processes, and for proper response to light touch. However, how EGFL6 itself is specifically induced/deposited/maintained at the central isthmus remains to be elucidated. Previous reports and our results showed that nerve endings and TSCs docking at the central isthmus during hair follicle development occur before the specific depositing of EGFL6 protein. Furthermore, we found nude mice rarely maintain the lanceolate complex, and EGFL6 is lost in their aberrant hair follicle. Instead, reconstituted hair follicle in nude mice by stem cells chamber grafting assay expresses EGFL6 at the central isthmus area after hair follicle innervation. At last, long-term but not short-term cutaneous denervation leads to degeneration of TSCs and loss of EGFL6 expression. Together, our results demonstrate that EGFL6 expression in the central isthmus is dependent on the presence of TSCs, proposing that the interplay of epidermis and neuronal components is important for maintaining functional structure of lanceolate complexes.

32171310
Functional complexity of hair follicle stem cell niche and therapeutic targeting of niche dysfunction for hair regeneration.
Stem cell activity is subject to non-cell-autonomous regulation from the local microenvironment, or niche. In adaption to varying physiological conditions and the ever-changing external environment, the stem cell niche has evolved with multifunctionality that enables stem cells to detect these changes and to communicate with remote cells/tissues to tailor their activity for organismal needs. The cyclic growth of hair follicles is powered by hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). Using HFSCs as a model, we categorize niche cells into 3 functional modules, including signaling, sensing and message-relaying. Signaling modules, such as dermal papilla cells, immune cells and adipocytes, regulate HFSC activity through short-range cell-cell contact or paracrine effects. Macrophages capacitate the HFSC niche to sense tissue injury and mechanical cues and adipocytes seem to modulate HFSC activity in response to systemic nutritional states. Sympathetic nerves implement the message-relaying function by transmitting external light signals through an ipRGC-SCN-sympathetic circuit to facilitate hair regeneration. Hair growth can be disrupted by niche pathology, e.g. dysfunction of dermal papilla cells in androgenetic alopecia and influx of auto-reacting T cells in alopecia areata and lichen planopilaris. Understanding the functions and pathological changes of the HFSC niche can provide new insight for the treatment of hair loss.

32220061
Hair follicle stem cells combined with human allogeneic acellular amniotic membrane for repair of full thickness skin defects in nude mice.
Repair of large skin defects caused by burns, trauma, or tumor operations is a clinical challenge. Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are involved in epithelialization of wounds, formation of new hair follicles and promote vascularization in the newly formed skin, and human acellular amniotic membrane (hAAM) is a promising scaffold for skin substitute. Here, we investigated the ability of rat HFSCs (rHFSCs) combined with an hAAM to repair full thickness skin defects in nude mice. The effect of the rHFSC-hAAM composite on the repair of skin defects in nude mice was assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining, immunohistochemistry, and EdU-labeled cell tracking. Isolated and cultured rHFSCs had strong cloning and proliferation potentials. Immunofluorescence staining and flow cytometry assays showed that rHFSCs expressed high levels of integrin alpha6, CK15, p63, and Sox9. Cells cultured in hAAM showed flaky and cluster-like morphology and were able to adhere and grow effectively. After transplantation, the rHFSC-hAAM composite promoted wound healing in nude mice. Moreover, cells in the rHFSC-hAAM composite were directly involved in hair follicle formation and angiogenesis of tissue around the hair follicle. These results provide an experimental and theoretical basis for the clinical application of HFSCs in repair of human skin defects and a new approach for skin tissue engineering.

32243962
LncRNA-XIST promotes dermal papilla induced hair follicle regeneration by targeting miR-424 to activate hedgehog signaling.
BACKGROUND: Alopecia is a highly prevalent disease characterizing by the loss of hair. Dermal papilla (DP) cells are the inducer of hair follicle regeneration, and in vitro three-dimensional (3D) culturing DP cells have been proven to induce hair follicle regeneration. However, the molecular mechanisms behind the regulation of 3D culturing DP cells remain unclear. METHODS: 3D-cultivated DP cells were used as in vitro cell model. DP sphere xenograft to nude mice was performed for in vivo study of hair follicle regeneration. qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence were used for detecting the level of XIST, miR-424 and Hedgehog pathway-related proteins, respectively. H&E staining was used to examine hair neogenesis. Cell viability, proliferation and ALP activity were measured by MTT, CCK-8 and ELISA assays, respectively. Luciferase assays were used for studying molecular regulation between XIST, miR-424 and Shh 3'UTR. RESULTS: XIST and Shh were up-regulated, and miR-424 was down-regulated in 3D DP cells. Molecular regulation studies suggested that XIST sponged miR-424 to promote Shh expression. Knockdown of XIST suppressed DP cell activity, cell proliferation, ALP activity and the expression of other DP markers by sponging miR-424. Knockdown of XIST suppressed Shh mediated hedgehog signaling by targeting miR-424. Moreover, the knockdown of XIST inhibited DP sphere induced in vivo hair follicle regeneration and hair development. CONCLUSION: XIST sponges miR-424 to promote Shh expression, thereby activating hedgehog signaling and facilitating DP mediated hair follicle regeneration.

32245516
PI3K/Akt signaling pathway is essential for de novo hair follicle regeneration.
BACKGROUND: Cultured epidermal stem cells (Epi-SCs) and skin-derived precursors (SKPs) were capable of reconstituting functional hair follicles after implantation, while the signaling pathways that regulate neogenic hair follicle formation are poorly investigated. In this study, we aimed to understand the interactions between Epi-SCs and SKPs during skin organoid formation and to uncover key signal pathways crucial for de novo hair follicle regeneration. METHODS: To track their fate after transplantation, Epi-SCs derived from neonatal C57BL/6 mice were labeled with tdTomato, and SKPs were isolated from neonatal C57BL/6/GFP mice. A mixture of Epi-SCs-tdTomato and SKPs-EGFP in Matrigel was observed under two-photon microscope in culture and after implantation into excisional wounds in nude mice, to observe dynamic migrations of the cells during hair follicle morphogenesis. Signaling communications between the two cell populations were examined by RNA-Seq analysis. Potential signaling pathways revealed by the analysis were validated by targeting the pathways using specific inhibitors to observe a functional loss in de novo hair follicle formation. RESULTS: Two-photon microscopy analysis indicated that when Epi-SCs and SKPs were mixed in Matrigel and cultured, they underwent dynamic migrations resulting in the formation of a bilayer skin-like structure (skin organoid), where Epi-SCs positioned themselves in the outer layer; when the mixture of Epi-SCs and SKPs was grafted into excisional wounds in nude mice, a bilayer structure resembling the epidermis and the dermis formed at the 5th day, and de novo hair follicles generated subsequently. RNA-Seq analysis of the two cell types after incubation in mixture revealed dramatic alterations in gene transcriptome, where PI3K-Akt signaling pathway in Epi-SCs was significantly upregulated; meanwhile, elevated expressions of several growth factors and cytokine potentially activating PI3K were found in SKPs, suggesting active reciprocal communications between them. In addition, inhibition of PI3K or Akt by specific inhibitors markedly suppressed the hair follicle regeneration mediated by Epi-SCs and SKPs. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway plays a crucial role in de novo hair follicle regeneration, and the finding may suggest potential therapeutic applications in enhancing hair regeneration.

32293116
Reconstructed human skin shows epidermal invagination towards integrated neopapillae indicating early hair follicle formation in vitro.
Application of reconstructed human Skin (RhS) is a promising approach for the treatment of extensive wounds and for drug efficacy and safety testing. However, incorporating appendages, such as hair follicles, into RhS still remains a challenge. The hair follicle plays a critical role in thermal regulation, dispersion of sweat and sebum, sensory and tactile functions, skin regeneration, and repigmentation. The aim of this study was to determine whether human neopapilla could be incorporated into RhS (differentiated epidermis on fibroblast and endothelial cell populated dermis) and whether the neopapillae maintain their inductive follicular properties in vitro. Neopapillae spheroids, constructed from expanded and self-aggregating dermal papilla cells, synthesized extracellular matrix typically found in follicular papillae. Compared with dermal fibroblasts, neopapillae showed increased expression of multiple genes (Wnt5a, Wnt10b, and LEF1) known to regulate hair development and also increased secretion of CXCL1, which is a strong keratinocyte chemoattractant. When neopapillae were incorporated into the dermis of RhS, they stimulated epidermal down-growth resulting in engulfment of the neopapillae sphere. Similar to the native hair follicle, the differentiated invaginating epidermis inner side was keratin 10 positive and the undifferentiated outer side keratin 10 negative. The outer side was keratin 15 positive confirming the undifferentiated nature of these keratinocytes aligning a newly formed collagen IV, laminin V positive basement membrane within the hydrogel. In conclusion, we describe a RhS model containing neopapillae with hair follicle-inductive properties. Importantly, epidermal invagination occurred to engulf the neopapillae, thus demonstrating in vitro the first steps towards hair follicle morphogenesis in RhS.

32295263
Integrative Analysis of Methylome and Transcriptome Reveals the Regulatory Mechanisms of Hair Follicle Morphogenesis in Cashmere Goat.
Studies in humans and mice have revealed that hair follicle morphogenesis relies on tightly coordinated ectodermal-mesodermal interactions, involving multiple signals and regulatory factors. DNA methylation and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) play a critical role in early embryonic skin development by controlling gene expression. Acting as an indirect regulator, lncRNA could recruit DNA methyltransferases to specific genomic sites to methylate DNA. However, the molecular regulation mechanisms underlying hair follicle morphogenesis is unclear in cashmere goat. In this study, RNA-seq and whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) in embryonic day 65 (E 65) and E 120 skin tissues of cashmere goat were used to reveal this complex regulatory process. The RNA-seq, qRT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry results showed that Wnt signaling played an important role in both hair follicle induction and differentiation stage; transcriptional factors (TFs), including HOXC13, SOX9, SOX21, JUNB, LHX2, VDR, and GATA3, participated in hair follicle differentiation via specific expression at E 120. Subsequently, the combination of WGBS and RNA-seq analysis showed that the expression of some hair follicle differentiation genes and TF genes were negatively correlated with the DNA methylation level generally. A portion of hair follicle differentiation genes were methylated and repressed in the hair follicle induction stage but were subsequently demethylated and expressed during the hair follicle differentiation stage, suggesting that DNA methylation plays an important role in hair morphogenesis by regulating associated gene expression. Furthermore, 45 upregulated and 147 downregulated lncRNAs in E 120 compared with E 65 were identified by lncRNA mapping, and then the potential differentially expressed lncRNAs associated with DNA methylation on the target gene were revealed. In conclusion, critical signals and genes were revealed during hair follicle morphogenesis in the cashmere goat. In this process, DNA methylation was lower in the hair follicle differentiation compared with the hair follicle induction stage and may play an important role in hair morphogenesis by regulating associated gene expression. Furthermore, potential lncRNAs associated with DNA methylation on target genes were delineated. This study enriches the regulatory network and molecular mechanisms on hair morphogenesis.

32299738
Immunostaining study of cytokeratins in human hair follicle development.
BACKGROUND: The hair follicle is a unique structure, one of the most dynamic structures in mammalians, which can reproduce in every new cycle all the mechanism involved in its fetal development. Although a lot of research has been made about the human hair follicle much less has been discovered about the importance of the cytokeratins (CKs) in its development. OBJECTIVE: Study the immunohistochemical pattern of epithelial CKs during human hair follicle development. METHODS: We performed an immunohistochemical study using fresh post-mortem skin biopsies of human fetuses between 4 and 25 weeks of gestational age to study the expression of cytokeratins (CKs): CK1, CK10, CK13, CK14, CK16 and CK20 during human hair follicle fetal development. STUDY LIMITATIONS: Restrospective study with a good number of makers but with a small population. RESULTS/CONCLUSION: We found that, the CKs were expressed in an intermediate time during follicular development. The epithelial CKs (CK1, CK14, CK10, CK13) and the epithelial CKs with a proliferative character such as CK16 were expressed first, as markers of cellular maturation and follicular keratinization. At a later phase, CK20 was expressed in more developed primitive hair follicles as previously discussed in literature.

32302611
Gasdermin A3-Mediated Cell Death Causes Niche Collapse and Precocious Activation of Hair Follicle Stem Cells.
Hair follicles undergo recurrent growth, regression, and resting phases throughout postnatal life, which is supported by hair follicle stem cells. The niche components of hair follicle stem cells are important to maintain their quiescence and stemness. Gsdma3 gain-of-function mutations in mice cause chronic skin inflammation, aberrant hair cycle, and progressive hair loss, reminiscent of scarring alopecia in humans. However, the mechanism underlying these defects remains elusive. Here, we used a combined Cre/loxP and rtTA/TRE system to study the spatiotemporal effect of Gsdma3 overexpression on distinct hair cycle stages. We found that Gsdma3-mediated cell death affects anagen initiation, anagen progression, and catagen-telogen transition. Induced Gsdma3 expression causes bulge inner layer collapse and precocious hair follicle stem cell activation, leading to subsequent hair follicle degeneration. Although macrophages and dendritic cells are recruited to the bulge region, in vivo depletion of these cells using a neutralizing antibody does not alleviate cell death in the bulge or hair germ, indicating that macrophages are less likely to cause immediate hair follicle deletion. Our data suggest that dysregulated Gsdma3 causes bulge inner layer necrosis to induce club hair shedding and immediate anagen reentry without going through telogen morphology, which implicates a role for Gsdma3 in hair follicle stem cell niche maintenance.

32314205
Isolation of Epidermal and Hair Follicle Melanocytes.
Here we describe the isolation of epidermal melanocytes and hair follicle melanocytes from human skin tissue. Epidermal and hair follicle melanocytes are two distinct populations of melanocytes which are contained within the skin and the hair follicle, with differing yet overlapping roles. Epidermal melanocytes are normally isolated from the epidermis of vellus-haired skin tissue (e.g., face, breast, abdomen), while hair follicle melanocytes are derived from the outer root sheath (ORS) of the middle/lower terminal anagen hair follicles of the scalp. These methods utilize ethically sourced human skin tissue obtained from donors undergoing plastic surgery.

32314215
Generation of Hair Follicle Germs In Vitro Using Human Postnatal Skin Cells.
Modeling organoids with hair follicle germ-like properties provides an opportunity for developing strategies for alopecia drug discovery and replacement therapy, as well as investigating the molecular mechanisms underlying human hair follicle regeneration in vitro. Hair follicle germ reconstruction in vitro is based on dermal papilla hair-inducing abilities and the plasticity of skin epidermal keratinocytes. The current protocol describes a highly efficient approach suitable for adult human skin cell applications. This method allows to obtain hair follicle germs using tissues from one donor. Isolated and cultured for 2 weeks, adult hair follicle dermal papilla cells and skin epidermal keratinocytes self-organize in hanging drop cultures generating organoids that exhibit the features of folliculogenesis onset.

32321445
The functions of ocu-miR-205 in regulating hair follicle development in Rex rabbits.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicles are an appendage of the vertebrate epithelium in the skin that arise from the embryonic ectoderm and regenerate cyclically during adulthood. Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) are the key dermal component of the hair follicle that directly regulate hair follicle development, growth and regeneration. According to recent studies, miRNAs play an important role in regulating hair follicle morphogenesis and the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells. RESULTS: The miRNA expression profile of the DPCs from Rex rabbits with different hair densities revealed 240 differentially expressed miRNAs ( log2(HD/LD)  > 1.00 and Q-value<=0.001). Among them, ocu-miR-205-5p was expressed at higher levels in DPCs from rabbits with low hair densities (LD) than in rabbits with high hair densities (HD), and it was expressed at high levels in the skin tissue from Rex rabbits (P < 0.05). Notably, ocu-miR-205 increased cell proliferation and the cell apoptosis rate, altered the progression of the cell cycle (P < 0.05), and modulated the expression of genes involved in the PI3K/Akt, Wnt, Notch and BMP signalling pathways in DPCs and skin tissue from Rex rabbits. It also inhibited the phosphorylation of the CTNNB1 and GSK-3beta proteins, decreased the level of the noggin (NOG) protein, and increased the level of phosphorylated Akt (P < 0.05). A significant change in the primary follicle density was not observed (P > 0.05), but the secondary follicle density and total follicle density (P < 0.05) were altered upon interference with ocu-miR-205-5p expression, and the secondary/primary ratio (S/P) in the ocu-miR-205-5p interfered expression group increased 14 days after the injection (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, ocu-miR-205 promoted the apoptosis of DPCs, altered the expression of genes and proteins involved in the PI3K/Akt, Wnt, Notch and BMP signalling pathways in DPCs and skin from Rex rabbits, promoted the transition of hair follicles from the growth phase to the regression and resting phase, and altered the hair density of Rex rabbits.

32339605
LncRNA-PCAT1 maintains characteristics of dermal papilla cells and promotes hair follicle regeneration by regulating miR-329/Wnt10b axis.
BACKGROUND: The failure of hair follicle regeneration is the major cause of alopecia, which is a highly prevalent disease worldwide. Dermal papilla (DP) cells play important role in the regulation of hair follicle regeneration. However, the molecular mechanism of how dermal papilla cells direct follicle regeneration is still to be elucidated. METHODS: In vitro DP 3D culturing and in vivo nude mice DP sphere implanted models were used to examine the molecular regulation of DP cells and follicle regeneration. qRT-PCR and Western blotting were used to detect gene and protein expression, respectively. Immunofluorescence was used to detect the expression level of Wnt10b, Ki-67 and beta-catenin. Luciferase assay was used to examine the relationship among PCAT1, miR-329 and Wnt10b. ALP activity was measured by ELISA. H&E staining was used to measure follicle growth in skin tissues. RESULTS: Up-regulation of PCAT1 and Wnt10b, however, down-regulation of miR-329 were found in the in vitro 3D dermal papilla. Bioinformatics analysis and luciferase assays demonstrated that PCAT1 promoted Wnt10b expression by sponging miR-329. Knockdown of PCAT1 suppressed the proliferation and activity, as well as ALP and other DP markers of DP cells by targeting miR-329. Knockdown of PCAT1 regulated miR-329/Wnt10b axis to attenuate beta-catenin expression and nucleus translocation to inhibit Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Furthermore, knockdown of PCAT1 suppressed DP sphere induced follicle regeneration and hair growth in nude mice. CONCLUSION: PCAT1 maintains characteristics of DP cells by targeting miR-329 to activating Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, thereby promoting hair follicle regeneration.

32354097
Culture and Differentiation of Human Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells in a Soft 3D Self-Assembling Peptide Scaffold.
Hair follicle dermal papilla cells (HFDPC) are a specialized cell population located in the bulge of the hair follicle with unique characteristics such as aggregative behavior and the ability to induce new hair follicle formation. However, when expanded in conventional 2D monolayer culture, their hair inductive potency is rapidly lost. Different 3D culture techniques, including cell spheroid formation, have been described to restore, at least partially, their original phenotype, and therefore, their hair inductive ability once transplanted into a recipient skin. Moreover, hair follicle dermal papilla cells have been shown to differentiate into all mesenchymal lineages, but their differentiation potential has only been tested in 2D cultures. In the present work, we have cultured HFDPC in the 3D self-assembling peptide scaffold RAD16-I to test two different tissue engineering scenarios: restoration of HFDPC original phenotype after cell expansion and osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. Experimental results showed that the 3D environment provided by RAD16-I allowed the restoration of HFDPC signature markers such as alkaline phosphatase, versican and corin. Moreover, RAD16-I supported, in the presence of chemical inductors, three-dimensional osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. Altogether, this study suggests a potential 3D culture platform based on RAD16-I suitable for the culture, original phenotype recovery and differentiation of HFDPC.

32358903
Getting under the skin of hair aging: the impact of the hair follicle environment.
Like the skin, our hair shows striking changes with age, producing hairs with altered diameter, lustre and texture. The biology of hair aging has focused predominately on various aspects of the hair cycle, follicle size and the fibre produced, but surprisingly the impact of the aging scalp dermal environment on the hair follicle and fibre has been generally overlooked. Hair loss affects both sexes with incidence increasing with age. In men, male pattern-balding (androgenetic alopecia) is driven by androgens and follows a specific pattern of frontotemporal and vertex regression. Women also experience female pattern hair loss (FPHL), presenting as more general, diffuse hair thinning. Hair thinning in women is commonly associated with the menopause, corresponding with other age-related changes in skin. The rapidly growing hair follicle undergoes continued renewal throughout the life span of an individual, where it is exposed to a substantial number of extrinsic and intrinsic stressors. As the hair follicle sits deep within the dermis with its bulb residing in the hypodermis, detrimental age-related changes in the surrounding scalp skin may likely disrupt the hair follicle machinery. The impacts of these changes are unknown, but evidence suggests that scalp skin aging and hair follicle aging go hand-in-hand. Herein, we summarize the evidence that the age-related changes observed in sun-exposed human skin also occur in scalp skin and that these changes are likely to play a contributing role in the aging hair phenotype.

32503427
Skin transcriptome reveals the periodic changes in genes underlying cashmere (ground hair) follicle transition in cashmere goats.
BACKGROUND: Cashmere goats make an outstanding contribution to the livestock textile industry and their cashmere is famous for its slenderness and softness and has been extensively studied. However, there are few reports on the molecular regulatory mechanisms of the secondary hair follicle growth cycle in cashmere goats. In order to explore the regular transition through the follicle cycle and the role of key genes in this cycle, we used a transcriptome sequencing technique to sequence the skin of Inner Mongolian cashmere goats during different months. We analyzed the variation and difference in genes throughout the whole hair follicle cycle. We then verified the regulatory mechanism of the cashmere goat secondary hair follicle growth cycle using fluorescence quantitative PCR. RESULTS: The growth cycle of cashmere hair could be divided into three distinct periods: a growth period (March-September), a regression period (September-December), and a resting period (December-March). The results of differential gene analyses showed that March was the most significant month. Cluster analysis of gene expression throughout the whole growth cycle further supported the key nodes of the three periods of cashmere growth, and the differential gene expression of keratin corresponding to the ground haircashmere growth cycle further supported the results from tissue slices. Quantitative fluorescence analysis showed that KAP3-1, KRTAP 8-1, and KRTAP 24-1 genes had close positive correlation with the cashmere growth cycle, and their regulation was consistent with the growth cycle of cashmere. CONCLUSION: The growth cycle of cashmere cashmere could be divided into three distinct periods: a growth period (March-September), a regression period (September-December) and a resting period (December-March). March was considered to be the beginning of the cycle. KAP and KRTAP showed close positive correlation with the growth cycle of secondary hair follicle cashmere growth, and their regulation was consistent with the cashmere growth cycle. But hair follicle development-related genes are expressed earlier than cashmere growth, indicating that cycle regulation could alter the temporal growth of cashmere. This study laid a theoretical foundation for the study of the cashmere development cycle and provided evidence for key genes during transition through the cashmere cycle. Our study provides a theoretical basis for cashmere goat breeding.

32522101
Hair Follicle Transplantation for Wound Repair.
Significance: Hair follicles are complex miniorgans that reside in the dermal layer of the skin. When the skin is wounded, epidermal stem cells in the hair follicle activate and start migrating into the wound site, differentiating into epidermal cells. and contributing to the reepithelialization of the wound. The hair follicles represent the deepest epidermal elements in the skin, which are extremely beneficial in partial-thickness burns and abrasions where the skin can regenerate from the hair follicles. Recent Advances: Advanced animal models have demonstrated that the contribution of epidermal stem cells in the hair follicle bulge and isthmus regions is important for wound healing. In addition, several clinical studies have shown successful harvesting and transplantation of hair follicles as a treatment modality to accelerate wound healing. Critical Issues: Deep and large wounds require hospitalization and, without exception, surgical treatment. Harvesting and direct transplantation of hair follicles could provide a great source of autologous epidermal stem cells for wound healing. The procedure can be done in an outpatient setting, quickly and without creating a large donor site wound. Future Directions: Transplantation of hair follicles in a combination with novel biomaterials could provide advantageous treatment possibilities for both chronic wounds and burns. There is a substantial amount of molecular signaling data available on the role of hair follicles during wound repair, but almost all the data are derived from rodent models, and thus, more information from large animals and most importantly from humans would be beneficial and help to advance this promising treatment further.

32542737
Transient stimulation of TRPV4-expressing keratinocytes promotes hair follicle regeneration in mice.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Hair follicle telogen to anagen transition results in a break in cellular quiescence of the hair follicle stem cells, which subsequently promotes hair follicle regeneration. Many critical molecules and signalling pathways are involved in hair follicle cycle progression. Transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) is a polymodal sensory transducer that regulates various cutaneous functions under both normal and disease conditions. However, the role of TRPV4 in hair follicle regeneration in vivo remains incompletely understood. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Using adult C57BL/6J mice, keratinocyte (K14Cre ; Trpv4f/f ) and macrophage (Cx3cr1Cre ; Trpv4f/f ) Trpv4 conditional knockout (cKO) mice, Trpv4-/- mice, we investigated the effect of a single intradermal injection of GSK1016790A, a potent and selective small molecule TRPV4 activator, on hair follicle regeneration. Chemical cues and signal molecules involved in hair follicle cycle progression were measured by immunofluorescence staining, quantitative RT-PCR and western blotting. KEY RESULTS: Here, we show that a single intradermal injection of GSK1016790A is sufficient to induce telogen to anagen transition and hair follicle regeneration in mice by increasing the expression of the anagen-promoting growth factors and down-regulating the expression of growth factors that inhibit anagen. The action of GSK1016790A relies largely on the function of TRPV4 in skin and involves activation of downstream ERK signalling. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our results suggest that transient chemical activation of TRPV4 in the skin induces hair follicle regeneration in mice, which might provide an effective therapeutic strategy for the treatment of hair loss and alopecia.

32615938
Shedding light on cashmere goat hair follicle biology: from morphology analyses to transcriptomic landascape.
BACKGROUND: Cashmere goat is known for its precious undercoat. Being photoperiod-dictated, cashmere growth has been studied focusing mainly on hair follicle cycle phases (anagen, catagen and telogen). An accurate molecular knowledge of the goat hair follicle cycle, disentangling gene expression changes during phases and recognizing timing boundaries, could be useful to improve cashmere goat management and ultimately cashmere production. RESULTS: To better describe goat's hair follicle transcriptome we applied RNA-sequencing to isolated hair follicles from five Italian cashmere goats, during the anagen and catagen phase, identifying total of 214 differentially expressed genes (DEGs): 97 were up-regulated while 117 were down-regulated in catagen with respect to anagen. Gene Ontology and pathway analysis were performed. We detected 144 significant pathways spanning from estrogen, pluripotency of stem cells, thermogenesis and fatty acid metabolism that were strongly expressed during the hair follicle phases analysed. Finally, we validated promising DEGs by RT-qPCR in the same set of samples as well as in hair follicles and entire skin biopsies of another cashmere goats cohort accounting for early anagen, anagen, early catagen, and catagen phases. CONCLUSIONS: As in the isolated hair follicles, some target genes were homogenously modulated during the four hair follicle phases. Ceruloplasmin (CP) and Keratin 4 (K4), confirmed their clear cut expression between growing and resting phase. In fact, K4 was almost absent in catagen phases while CP was barely expressed in anagen phases. In particular, the strong expression of K4 in early anagen makes it an eligible marker to track the beginning of a new hair cycle, and therefore defining the optimum time for cashmere harvesting.

32679029
Cell Types Promoting Goosebumps Form a Niche to Regulate Hair Follicle Stem Cells.
Piloerection (goosebumps) requires concerted actions of the hair follicle, the arrector pili muscle (APM), and the sympathetic nerve, providing a model to study interactions across epithelium, mesenchyme, and nerves. Here, we show that APMs and sympathetic nerves form a dual-component niche to modulate hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) activity. Sympathetic nerves form synapse-like structures with HFSCs and regulate HFSCs through norepinephrine, whereas APMs maintain sympathetic innervation to HFSCs. Without norepinephrine signaling, HFSCs enter deep quiescence by down-regulating the cell cycle and metabolism while up-regulating quiescence regulators Foxp1 and Fgf18. During development, HFSC progeny secretes Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) to direct the formation of this APM-sympathetic nerve niche, which in turn controls hair follicle regeneration in adults. Our results reveal a reciprocal interdependence between a regenerative tissue and its niche at different stages and demonstrate sympathetic nerves can modulate stem cells through synapse-like connections and neurotransmitters to couple tissue production with demands.

32685006
Single-cell Transcriptome Profiling reveals Dermal and Epithelial cell fate decisions during Embryonic Hair Follicle Development.
It is estimated that 50% of men and 25% of women worldwide suffer from hair loss, and therefore it is of great significance to investigate the molecular pathways driving hair follicle de novo morphogenesis. However, due to high cellular heterogeneity and the asynchronous development of hair follicles, our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in follicle development remains limited. Methods: Single-cell suspensions from the dorsal skin of E13.5 (induction stage), E16.5 (organogenesis) fetal mice, and newborn mice (cytodifferentiation stage, postnatal day 0, P0) were prepared for unbiased single-cell RNA sequencing. To delineate the single-cell transcriptional landscape during hair follicle de novo morphogenesis, we performed t-distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE), pseudotime cell trajectory inference, and regulon enrichment analysis to dissect cellular heterogeneity and reveal the molecular pathways underlying major cell type cell fate decisions. To validate our analysis, we further performed immunohistochemistry analysis of the key molecules involved during hair follicle morphogenesis. Meanwhile, intercellular communication between different cell populations was inferred based on a priori knowledge of ligand-receptor pairs. Results: Based on tSNE analysis, we identified 14 cell clusters from skin tissue and delineated their cellular identity from specific gene expression profiles. By using pseudotime ordering analysis, we successfully constructed the epithelium/dermal cell lineage differentiation trajectory. For dermal cell lineage, our analysis here recapitulated the dynamic gene expression profiles during dermal condensate (DC) cell fate commitment and delineated the heterogeneity of the different dermal papilla (DP) cell populations during in utero hair follicle development. For the epithelium cell lineage, our analysis revealed the dynamic gene expression profiles of the underappreciated matrix, interfollicular epidermis (IFE), hair shaft and inner root sheath (IRS) cell populations. Furthermore, single-cell regulatory network inference and clustering analysis revealed key regulons during cell fate decisions. Finally, intercellular communication analysis demonstrated that strong intercellular communication was involved during early hair follicle development. Conclusions: Our findings here provide a molecular landscape during hair follicle epithelium/dermal cell lineage fate decisions, and recapitulate the sequential activation of core regulatory transcriptional factors (TFs) in different cell populations during hair follicle morphogenesis. More importantly, our study here represents a valuable resource for understanding the molecular pathways involved during hair follicle de novo morphogenesis, which will have implications for future hair loss treatments.

32696520
SIRT7 activates quiescent hair follicle stem cells to ensure hair growth in mice.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are maintained in a quiescent state until activated to grow, but the mechanisms that reactivate the quiescent HFSC reservoir are unclear. Here, we find that loss of Sirt7 in mice impedes hair follicle life-cycle transition from telogen to anagen phase, resulting in delay of hair growth. Conversely, Sirt7 overexpression during telogen phase facilitated HSFC anagen entry and accelerated hair growth. Mechanistically, Sirt7 is upregulated in HFSCs during the telogen-to-anagen transition, and HFSC-specific Sirt7 knockout mice (Sirt7f/f ;K15-Cre) exhibit a similar hair growth delay. At the molecular level, Sirt7 interacts with and deacetylates the transcriptional regulator Nfatc1 at K612, causing PA28gamma-dependent proteasomal degradation to terminate Nfatc1-mediated telogen quiescence and boost anagen entry. Cyclosporin A, a potent calcineurin inhibitor, suppresses nuclear retention of Nfatc1, abrogates hair follicle cycle delay, and promotes hair growth in Sirt7-/- mice. Furthermore, Sirt7 is downregulated in aged HFSCs, and exogenous Sirt7 overexpression promotes hair growth in aged animals. These data reveal that Sirt7 activates HFSCs by destabilizing Nfatc1 to ensure hair follicle cycle initiation.

32698510
The Effect of JAK Inhibitor on the Survival, Anagen Re-Entry, and Hair Follicle Immune Privilege Restoration in Human Dermal Papilla Cells.
Topical or systemic administration of JAK inhibitors has been shown to be a new treatment modality for severe alopecia areata (AA). Some patients show a good response to JAK inhibitors, but frequently relapse after cessation of the treatment. There have been no guidelines about the indications and use of JAK inhibitors in treating AA. The basic pathomechanism of AA and the relevant role of JAK inhibitors should support how to efficiently use JAK inhibitors. We sought to investigate the effect of JAK1/2 inhibitor on an in vitro model of AA and to examine the possible mechanisms. We used interferon gamma-pretreated human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs) as an in vitro model of AA. Ruxolitinib was administered to the hDPCs, and cell viability was assessed. The change of expression of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, molecules related to the JAK-STAT pathway, and growth factors in ruxolitinib-treated hDPCs was also examined by reverse transcription PCR and Western blot assay. We examined immune-privilege-related molecules by immunohistochemistry in hair-follicle culture models. Ruxolitinib did not affect the cell viability of the hDPCs. Ruxolitinib activated several molecules in the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, including Lef1 and beta-catenin, and suppressed the transcription of DKK1 in hDPCs, but not its translation. Ruxolitinib reverted IFN-gamma-induced expression of caspase-1, IL-1beta, IL-15, and IL-18, and stimulated several growth factors, such as FGF7. Ruxolitinib suppressed the phosphorylation of JAK1, JAK2 and JAK3, and STAT1 and 3 compared to IFN-gamma pretreated hDPCs. Ruxolitinib pretreatment showed a protective effect on IFN-gamma-induced expression of MHC-class II molecules in cultured hair follicles. In conclusion, ruxolitinib modulated and reverted the interferon-induced inflammatory changes by blocking the JAK-STAT pathway in hDPCs under an AA-like environment. Ruxolitinib directly stimulated anagen-re-entry signals in hDPCs by affecting the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway and promoting growth factors in hDPCs. Ruxolitinib treatment prevented IFN-gamma-induced collapse of hair-follicle immune privilege.

32768426
Expression profile analysis to identify circular RNA expression signatures in hair follicle of Hu sheep lambskin.
CircRNAs are involved in the regulation of various cellular and biological processes, but none of the studies have focused on hair follicle in sheep. In this study, the expression profile of circRNAs between small waves (SM) and straight wool (ST) groups was investigated using RNA-Seq. The results showed that a total of 5,527 circRNAs were identified and 114 of them were differentially expressed between two groups. Enrichment analysis revealed that the host genes with DE circRNAs were mainly enriched in TGF-beta pathway, Notch pathway. Miranda software was used to found that 129 miRNAs might be binding to 114 DE circRNAs, including miR-10a, miR-143, miR-let-7a, miR-199a-3p, miR-200a, which also had important influence on hair follicle morphogenesis. Furthermore, the coding potential of circRNAs was predicted, and 11 circRNAs were simultaneously identified with coding potential. In summary, circRNAs have important effects on hair follicle growth and development, and these results will provide a basis for molecular mechanism of pattern formation.

32861956
Effects of melatonin administration to cashmere goats on cashmere production and hair follicle characteristics in two consecutive cashmere growth cycles.
The objective of the study was to determine the long-term effects of melatonin treatment on cashmere production and hair follicle populations in cashmere goats and their activity in two consecutive cashmere growth cycles. Twenty-four female Inner Mongolian Cashmere goats were randomly allocated to two groups (n = 12), one of which received melatonin implants, the other being an untreated control group. Melatonin implants were subcutaneously inserted behind the ear at a dose of 2 mg/kg live weight on two occasions -April 30 and June 30, 2016. Hair samples were collected by combing in April of 2017 and 2018, and the weight, staple length, and diameter of the cashmere fibers were measured. Blood and skin samples were collected monthly between April and September 2016, and in April and September in 2017 for the analysis of melatonin concentration and the characteristics of secondary hair follicle populations, respectively. The results indicated that serum melatonin concentration in the treated goats was elevated (P < 0.05) relative to that of the control group, but only during the first growth cycle. Melatonin treatment of cashmere goats in one cashmere growth cycle increased the weight, staple length, and density (all P < 0.05) of the cashmere fibers and decreased fiber diameter (P < 0.01), but did not affect the characteristics of cashmere production in the subsequent annual cycle. Melatonin treatment had no effect on the population of skin secondary hair follicles for two consecutive cycles. However, in the first growth cycle after treatment, it advanced the onset of activity of skin secondary hair follicles by 2 mo (P < 0.05), and it increased the number of follicles that were active (P < 0.05). In summary, the melatonin treatment of cashmere goats in one cashmere growth cycle improved cashmere production for that cycle only, with no residual effects on the subsequent cycle, a technique acceptable to the cashmere goat industry. The enhancement of cashmere production after the treatment of goats with melatonin appears to involve the acceleration of the annual regeneration of skin secondary hair follicles and increased population of active secondary hair follicles in the skin of cashmere goats.

32955717
Characterization and functional analysis of Krtap11-1 during hair follicle development in Angora rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus).
BACKGROUND: Keratin-associated protein (KAP), the structural protein molecule of hair fibers, plays a key role in determining the physical properties of hair. Studies of Krtap11-1 have focused only on its localization. Functional studies of Krtap11-1 in hair follicle development have so far not been reported. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to provide evidence for the role of Krtap11-1 in skin and hair development. METHODS: Full-length cloning and analysis of Krtap11-1 were conducted to ascertain its function. Overexpression vectors and interference sequences were constructed and transfected into RAB-9 cells. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to investigate the hair follicle developmental stage of Krtap11-1, the expression of different tissues, and the effects on other hair follicle development-related genes. RESULTS: The full length of cloned Krtap11-1 was 947 bp. Krtap11-1 was confirmed to be a hydrophilic protein localized mostly in mitochondria. The greatest mRNA expression was observed in skin. Using a follicle synchronization model, it was found that Krtap11-1 mRNA expression levels first increased then decreased over the passage of time, principally during hair follicle catagen and telogen. Following the overexpression of Krtap11-1, mRNA expression levels of the WNT-2, KRT17, BMP-2, and TGF-beta-1 genes increased, and LEF-1 decreased (P < 0.05), the converse after the corresponding use of si-RNA interference. CONCLUSIONS: Krtap11-1 exerts a promoting effect. The results provide novel insight into the relationship between hair follicle development and Krtap11-1 gene expression.

32962644
Hair follicle regional specificity in different parts of bay Mongolian horse by histology and transcriptional profiling.
BACKGROUND: Different morphological structures of hairs having properties like defense and camouflage help animals survive in the wild environment. Horse is one of the rare kinds of animals with complex hair phenotypes in one individual; however, knowledge of horse hair follicle is limited in literature and their molecular basis remains unclear. Therefore, the investigation of horse hair follicle morphogenesis and pigmentogenesis attracts considerable interest. RESULT: Histological studies revealed the morphology and pigment synthesis of hair follicles are different in between four different parts (mane, dorsal part, tail, and fetlock) of the bay Mongolian horse. Hair follicle size, density, and cycle are strongly associated with the activity of alkaline phosphatase (ALP). We observed a great difference in gene expression between the mane, tail, and fetlock, which had a greater different gene expression pattern compared with the dorsal part through transcriptomics. The development of the hair follicle in all four parts was related to angiogenesis, stem cells, Wnt, and IGF signaling pathways. Pigmentogenesis-related pathways were involved in their hair follicle pigment synthesis. CONCLUSIONS: Hair follicle morphology and the activity of ALP differ among four body parts in bay Mongolian horse. Hair follicles of the different body parts of the are not synchronized in their cycle stages. GO terms show a regional specificity pattern between different skin parts of the bay Mongolian horse. These results provide an insight into the understanding of the biological mechanism of the hair follicle in other mammals.

33006790
The dermal sheath: An emerging component of the hair follicle stem cell niche.
Hair follicles cyclically regenerate throughout adult mammalian life, owing to a resident population of epithelial hair follicle stem cells. Stem cell (SC) activity drives bouts of follicle growth, which are periodically interrupted by follicle regression and rest. These phases and the transitions between them are tightly spatiotemporally coordinated by signalling crosstalk between stem/progenitor cells and the various cell types of the microenvironment, or niche. The dermal papilla (DP) is a cluster of specialized mesenchymal cells that have long been recognized for important niche roles in regulating hair follicle SC activation, as well as progenitor proliferation and differentiation during follicle growth. In addition to the DP, the mesenchyme of the murine pelage follicle is also comprised of a follicle-lining smooth muscle known as the dermal sheath (DS), which has been far less studied than the DP yet may be equally specialized and important for hair cycling. In this review, we define the murine pelage DS in comparison with human DS and discuss recent work that highlights the emergent importance of the DS in the hair follicle SC niche. Last, we examine potential therapeutic applications for the DS in hair regeneration and wound healing.

33040410
Clues that mitochondria are involved in the hair cycle clock: MPZL3 regulates entry into and progression of murine hair follicle cycling.
The molecular nature of the hair cycle clock (HCC), the intrinsic oscillator system that drives hair follicle (HF) cycling, remains incompletely understood; therefore, all relevant key players need to be identified. Here, we present evidence that implicates myelin protein zero-like 3 (MPZL3), a multifunctional nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein known to be involved in epidermal differentiation, in HCC regulation. By analysing global Mpzl3 knockout (-/-) mice, we show that in the absence of functional MPZL3, mice commence HF cycling with retarded first catagen-telogen transition after normal postnatal HF morphogenesis. However, Mpzl3 -/- mice subsequently display strikingly accelerated HF cycling, i.e. a precocious telogen-to-anagen transition during the second hair cycle, compared to controls, suggesting that MPZL3 inhibits anagen entry. We also show that intrafollicular MPZL3 protein expression fluctuates in a hair cycle-dependent manner. In telogen HFs, MPZL3 is localized to the secondary hair germ, an epicentre of hair cycle regulation, where it partially co-localizes with P-cadherin. In early anagen HF, MPZL3 is localized immediately distal to the proximal hair matrix. These findings introduce the novel concept that mitochondria are more actively involved in hair cycle control than previously recognized and that MPZL3 plays a central role in the HCC.

33066831
All-trans-retinoic acid inhibits mink hair follicle growth via inhibiting proliferation and inducing apoptosis of dermal papilla cells through TGF-beta2/Smad2/3 pathway.
Dermal papilla cells (DPCs), an important component of hair follicles, its proliferation and apoptosis directly regulate and maintain the growth of hair follicles. All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) plays a critical role in hair growth. In this study, the effects of ATRA on cultured mink hair follicle growth were studied by administration of different concentrations of ATRA for 12 days in vitro. In addition, the proliferation and apoptosis of DPCs were measured after treating with ATRA. The mRNA and protein levels of hair follicle growth associated factor transforming growth factor-beta2 (TGF-beta2) and the phosphorylation levels of Smad2/3 were determined. Moreover, TGF-beta type I and type II receptor inhibitor LY2109761 and specific inhibitor of Smad3 (SIS3) were administered to investigate the underlying molecular mechanism. The results showed that ATRA inhibited hair follicle growth, promoted TGF-beta2 expression and activated phosphorylation of Smad2/3. In addition, ATRA inhibited cell proliferation by arresting the cell cycle at G1 phase and induced apoptosis of DPCs by enhancing the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 and promoted the cleavage of caspase-3. Furthermore, LY2109761 or SIS3 partially reversed the decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis that were induced by ATRA. In conclusion, ATRA could inhibit hair follicle growth via inhibiting proliferation and inducing apoptosis of DPCs partially through the TGF-beta2/Smad2/3 pathway.

33119828
Expression of Protein Kinases RIPK-1 and RIPK-3 in Mouse and Human Hair Follicle.
Expression of cell death regulators RIPK-1 and RIPK-3 in mouse and human hair follicle structures was studied by immunohistochemistry. At anagen and catagen stages of mouse hair follicle, RIPK-1+ cells were located in the inner root sheath, whereas RIPK-3+ cells were found in the inner and outer root sheath, dermal papilla, and interfollicular epidermis. RIPK-1 expression intensity was low in the early anagen and increased as mature anagen and catagen approached. RIPK-1+ and RIPK-3+ cells were also found in human hair follicle. It is assumed that the role of necroptosis markers in hair follicle life activity is independent of programmed cell death and that they may have yet unknown functions and take part in noncanonical signal cascades.

33141445
Overexpression of Fgf8 in the epidermis inhibits hair follicle development.
The hair follicle is a classical model for studying epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. Given the critical role of fibroblast growth factor 8 (Fgf8) in embryonic development, we generated a mouse model that overexpresses Fgf8 specifically in the epidermis. Interestingly, these mutant mice exhibited stunted, smaller bodies and severe hypotrichosis. Histological analysis showed that the hair follicles in the mutants were arrested at stage 2 of hair development. The density of hair follicles in the mutant mice was also lower compared to that in the control mice. Overexpression of Fgf8 inhibited the proliferation of epidermal cells and simultaneously promoted apoptosis, leading to the arrest of hair follicle development. Further analysis showed that sonic hedgehog (Shh) and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (Bmp4) were downregulated and upregulated, respectively. To summarize, our study demonstrates that FGF signalling plays an important role in the regulation of hair follicle development.

33170472
The microfollicle: a model of the human hair follicle for in vitro studies.
Access to complex in vitro models that recapitulate the unique markers and cell-cell interactions of the hair follicle is rather limited. Creation of scalable, affordable, and relevant in vitro systems which can provide predictive screens of cosmetic ingredients and therapeutic actives for hair health would be highly valued. In this study, we explore the features of the microfollicle, a human hair follicle organoid model based on the spatio-temporally defined co-culture of primary cells. The microfollicle provides a 3D differentiation platform for outer root sheath keratinocytes, dermal papilla fibroblasts, and melanocytes, via epidermal-mesenchymal-neuroectodermal cross-talk. For assay applications, microfollicle cultures were adapted to 96-well plates suitable for medium-throughput testing up to 21 days, and characterized for their spatial and lineage markers. The microfollicles showed hair-specific keratin expression in both early and late stages of cultivation. The gene expression profile of microfollicles was also compared with human clinical biopsy samples in response to the benchmark hair-growth compound, minoxidil. The gene expression changes in microfollicles showed up to 75% overlap with the corresponding gene expression signature observed in the clinical study. Based on our results, the cultivation of the microfollicle appears to be a practical tool for generating testable insights for hair follicle development and offers a complex model for pre-clinical substance testing.

33178821
ERK1/2 Pathway Is Involved in the Enhancement of Fatty Acids from Phaeodactylum tricornutum Extract (PTE) on Hair Follicle Cell Proliferation.
Extractions from Phaeodactylum tricornutum have been widely studied and evaluated to various biological effects. The aim of this study was to investigate the promotional effect of P. tricornutum extract (PTE) on the ERK1/2 signaling pathway involved in hair follicle cell proliferation. In order to illuminate the enhancement of PTE on hair growth by promoting proliferation of hair follicle cells, the activities of human hair follicle outer root sheath cell (HFORSC), human hair follicle germinal matrix cells (HFGMC), and hair epithelial melanocytes (HEM) were observed under PET treatment. Levels of keratins, PKCzeta, ERK1/2, and p38 MAPK in hair follicle cells were determined by Western blotting to illustrate the mechanisms of PTE effects on hair growth. Analyzed by GC-MS, the main polyunsaturated fatty acids which were 9.43% of total fatty acids in PTE were linolenic acid, linoleic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid. Melanin content and tyrosinase activity in HEM were measured. The results showed that PTE exhibited remarkable enhancement on cell proliferation. Melanin production was inhibited by PTE treatment, while keratin-14, keratin-15, and keratin-17 levels on hair follicle cells were elevated at different concentrations. The promotions of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK levels indicated that the ERK1/2 signaling pathway is involved in the proliferation of hair follicle cells. These results are the evidence that PTE potentially deserves further study as a new natural candidate for hair care applications.

33333231
ANXA1 affects murine hair follicle growth through EGF signaling pathway.
Annexin A1 (ANXA1), a calcium-dependent phospholipid binding protein expressed in animals, plants and microorganisms, participates in various cellular physiological activities. Previous proteomics analysis indicates that the level of ANXA1 in mice dorsal skin changes during hair growth cycle, we speculate that ANXA1 may play an important role in hair follicle (HF) development. Thus, Anxa1 knock-out (KO) and over-expression (OE) mice were constructed to test its function. Our results showed that in addition to the diameter of HF and hair shaft, ANXA1 could participate in hair growth by affecting the density of HF, and the proliferation of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). Meanwhile, molecular analysis showed that EGF signaling pathway is involved in the function of ANXA1. The expression of Anxa1 is negatively correlated with the levels of Egf, Notch1, Mkk7, and phosphorylated AKT1 and ERK/2 proteins. The levels of Egf, Notch1, Mkk7 and phosphorylation of AKT1 and ERK/2 increased in Anxa1 KO mice but decreased in Anxa1 OE mice. Taken together, our results suggested that ANXA1 could affect the hair growth by regulating the HFSCs proliferation through EGF signaling pathway.

33404706
Localisation and regulation of cholesterol transporters in the human hair follicle: mapping changes across the hair cycle.
Cholesterol has long been suspected of influencing hair biology, with dysregulated homeostasis implicated in several disorders of hair growth and cycling. Cholesterol transport proteins play a vital role in the control of cellular cholesterol levels and compartmentalisation. This research aimed to determine the cellular localisation, transport capability and regulatory control of cholesterol transport proteins across the hair cycle. Immunofluorescence microscopy in human hair follicle sections revealed differential expression of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters across the hair cycle. Cholesterol transporter expression (ABCA1, ABCG1, ABCA5 and SCARB1) reduced as hair follicles transitioned from growth to regression. Staining for free cholesterol (filipin) revealed prominent cholesterol striations within the basement membrane of the hair bulb. Liver X receptor agonism demonstrated active regulation of ABCA1 and ABCG1, but not ABCA5 or SCARB1 in human hair follicles and primary keratinocytes. These results demonstrate the capacity of human hair follicles for cholesterol transport and trafficking. Future studies examining the role of cholesterol transport across the hair cycle may shed light on the role of lipid homeostasis in human hair disorders.

33427027
Expression of miRNA-203 and its target gene in hair follicle cycle development of Cashmere goat.
MicroRNA plays an important regulatory role in the development of all organisms, including hair follicle development. In order to improve domestic cashmere yield, the role of miRNA in hair follicle cycle has become a research hotspot. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which miRNA-203 regulates hair follicle development are not completely understood. In this study, we found that the relevant target genes of miRNA-203 (DDOST and NAE1) were less expressed in telogen by qPCR and Immunoblotting analysis, contrary to the expression mode of miRNA-203. The Dual-Luciferase reporter assay was used to verify the correlation between miRNA-203 and its target gene expression. The results showed that miRNA-203 specifically binds to the 3 'UTR of DDOST and NAE1, and the expression of miRNA-203 significantly down-regulates the expression of DDOST and NAE1 mRNA and protein. Therefore, this study demonstrates that miRNA-203 may regulate hair follicle development in Cashmere goats by targeting DDOST and NAE1.

33509078
Analysis of histology and long noncoding RNAs involved in the rabbit hair follicle density using RNA sequencing.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle density influences wool fibre production, which is one of the most important traits of the Wan Strain Angora rabbit. However, molecular mechanisms regulating hair follicle density have remained elusive. RESULTS: In this study, hair follicle density at different body sites of Wan Strain Angora rabbits with high and low wool production (HWP and LWP) was investigated by histological analysis. Haematoxylin-eosin staining showed a higher hair follicle density in the skin of the HWP rabbits. The long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) profile was investigated by RNA sequencing, and 50 and 38 differentially expressed (DE) lncRNAs and genes, respectively, were screened between the HWP and LWP groups. A gene ontology analysis revealed that phospholipid, lipid metabolic, apoptotic, lipid biosynthetic, and lipid and fatty acid transport processes were significantly enriched. Potential functional lncRNAs that regulate lipid metabolism, amino acid synthesis, as well as the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and hedgehog signalling pathways, were identified. Consequently, five lncRNAs (LNC_002171, LNC_000797, LNC_005567, LNC_013595, and LNC_020367) were considered to be potential regulators of hair follicle density and development. Three DE lncRNAs and genes were validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (q-PCR). CONCLUSIONS: LncRNA profiles provide information on lncRNA expression to improve the understanding of molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of hair follicle density.

33513983
Identification of Key Pathways and Genes Related to the Development of Hair Follicle Cycle in Cashmere Goats.
The development of hair follicle in cashmere goats shows significant periodic change, as with mice and humans. However, for cashmere goat with double-coat, the periodic change may be due to other regulatory molecules and signal pathways. To understand the mechanism of periodic development of hair follicle, we performed a weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) to mine key genes and establish an interaction network by utilizing the NCBI public dataset. Ten coexpression modules, including 7689 protein-coding genes, were constructed by WGCNA, six of which are considered to be significantly related to the development of the hair follicle cycle. A functional enrichment analysis for each model showed that they are closely related to ECM- receptor interaction, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, estrogen signaling pathway, and so on. Combined with the analysis of differential expressed genes, 12 hub genes from coexpression modules were selected as candidate markers, i.e., COL1A1, C1QTNF6, COL1A2, AQP3, KRTAP3-1, KRTAP11-1, FA2H, NDUFS5, DERL2, MRPL14, ANTKMT and XAB2, which might be applied to improve cashmere production.

33588419
A Selectable Biomarker in Hair Follicle Cycles - Cathepsins: A Preliminary Study in Murine.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Hair cycle is regulated by many biological factors. Cathepsins are involved in various physiological processes in human skin. Here, we investigated the cathepsin expression and distribution changes in follicular growth cycles for better understanding the hair cycles and to explore new intervention measures. METHODS: The 24 mice (C57BL/6, female, 7-week old) were selected and removed the back hair via rosin/paraffin method. At Day 8, Day 20, and Day 25, biopsy on post-plucking area was done. Immunohistochemical staining, Western blot, and Q-PCR were used to test the cathepsin B/D/L/E. RESULTS: In anagen, cathepsins (B, D, L, and E) were distributed in the hair follicle matrix, inner hair root sheath, and hair. In catagen, cathepsins were mainly observed in un-apoptosis inner root sheath and outer root sheath. Expression of cathepsins B-mRNA and L-mRNA was decreased from anagen and catagen to telogen. Cathepsin D-mRNA was increased in catagen and then decreased in telogen. Cathepsin E-mRNA was decreased in catagen and slightly increased in telogen. CONCLUSIONS: The distribution and expression of cathepsins B, D, L, and E in hair follicle changed with hair growth process which indicated that cathepsins might act as selectable biomarkers of hair cycle in different stages.

33624481
[Research progress of hair follicle and related stem cells in scar-free wound healing].
Objective: To explore the research progress of hair follicle and related stem cells in scar-free skin healing in recent years. Methods: The literature related to hair follicle and related stem cells, wound healing, and scar formation in recent years was extensively reviewed and summarized from the aspects of cell function and molecular mechanism. Results: Scar tissue after wound healing treated with hair follicle transplantation and related stem cell therapy is more mild or even without scar formation. The cell types and molecular mechanisms of the above phenomena are complex, and the bone morphogenetic protein signal transduction pathway and Wnt signal transduction pathway are strongly correlated. Conclusion: The research of hair follicle and related stem cells in scar-free skin healing is at the initial stage at present. Strengthening the mechanism research may provide new ideas for the treatment of wound and scar.

33666111
Histologic features of hair follicle neoplasms and cysts in dogs and cats: a diagnostic guide.
Hair follicle neoplasms occur in many different species, including humans. In domestic animals, they are most common in dogs. Most hair follicle tumors are benign, but malignant neoplasms can also occur. To diagnose hair follicle neoplasms, a thorough knowledge of follicular anatomy is important, given that follicular tumors are classified according to the differentiation pattern seen in the corresponding part of the normal hair follicle. This review focuses on the key diagnostic features of hair follicle tumors and follicular cysts in dogs and cats.

33678531
Impact of adipose-derived stem cells on engineering hair follicle germ-like tissue grafts for hair regenerative medicine.
Hair regenerative medicine has emerged as a promising treatment strategy for severe hair loss, such as end-stage androgenetic alopecia. Various approaches to engineering three-dimensional tissue grafts have been explored since they drive the ability to regenerate hair follicles when transplanted. In the present study, we demonstrated the assembly of human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs) into hair follicle germ (HFG)-like aggregates for de novo hair regeneration. We mixed human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs), murine embryonic epithelial cells, and hASCs in suspension, and allowed them to form aggregates. During three days of culture, cells initially formed a single aggregate with a random distribution of the three cell types, but the epithelial and dermal papilla cells subsequently separated from each other and formed a dumbbell-shaped HFG, with hASCs localized on the hDPC aggregate side. The involvement of hASCs significantly increased gene expression associated with hair morphogenesis compared to HFGs without hASCs. The self-organization of the three cell types was observed in our scalable lab-made chip device. HFGs containing hASCs efficiently generated hair shafts upon transplantation to nude mice, while only a few shafts were generated with HFGs without hASCs. This approach may be a promising strategy for fabricating tissue grafts for hair regenerative medicine.

33748907
Silencing MAP3K1 expression inhibits the proliferation of goat hair follicle stem cells.
The Yangtze River Delta White Goat is the only goat breed in the world that can produce superior-quality brush hair. Previous studies have shown that some genes are expressed differentially in the skin tissues between the goats produced superior-quality and normal-quality brush hair. Studies also have shown that different gene play varied roles in regulating the proliferation and apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells. However, the biological function of MAP3K1 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 1) gene in hair follicle stem cells is not fully understood. This study aims to investigate the role of MAP3K1 knockdown during the proliferation and apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells. RT-qPCR and Western blot were used to detect mRNA gene and protein expression level, CCK-8 and EdU assays were used to detect cell proliferation, and cell cycle and apoptosis were detected by flow cytometry. The results showed that the MAP3K1 expression level was significantly higher in the skin tissue of produced superior-quality brush hair than that in produced normal-quality brush hair. Moreover, functional studies indicated that si-MAP3K1 significantly inhibits the proliferation of hair follicle stem cells that came from a superior goat and promotes its apoptosis. Based on aforementioned assays, we speculated that MAP3K1 might play a regulatory effect in superior-quality brush hair traits.

33751552
KY19382, a novel activator of Wnt/beta-catenin signalling, promotes hair regrowth and hair follicle neogenesis.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The promotion of hair regeneration and growth heavily depends on the activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signalling in the hair follicle, including dermal papilla (DP). KY19382, one of the newly synthesized analogues of indirubin-3'-monoxime (I3O), was identified as a Wnt/beta-catenin signalling activator via inhibition of the interaction between CXXC-type zinc finger protein 5 (CXXC5) and dishevelled (Dvl). Given the close relationship between the Wnt/beta-catenin signalling and hair regeneration, we investigated the effect of KY19382 on hair regrowth and hair follicle neogenesis. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: In vitro hair induction effects of KY19382 were performed in human DP cells. The hair elongation effects of KY19382 were confirmed through the human hair follicle and vibrissa culture system. In vivo hair regeneration abilities of KY19382 were identified in three models: hair regrowth, wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN) and hair patch assays using C57BL/6 mice. The hair regeneration abilities were analysed by immunoblotting, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and immunohistochemical staining. KEY RESULTS: KY19382 activated Wnt/beta-catenin signalling and elevated expression of ALP and the proliferation marker PCNA in DP cells. KY19382 also increased hair length in ex vivo-cultured mouse vibrissa and human hair follicles and induced hair regrowth in mice. Moreover, KY19382 significantly promoted the generation of de novo hair follicles as shown by WIHN and hair patch assays. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: These results indicate that KY19382 is a potential therapeutic drug that exhibits effective hair regeneration ability via activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin signalling for alopecia treatments.

33789665
Nanoscale microenvironment engineering for expanding human hair follicle stem cell and revealing their plasticity.
BACKGROUND: Periodically regenerated hair follicles provide an excellent research model for studying tissue regeneration and stem cell homeostasis. Periodic activation and differentiation of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) fuel cyclical bouts of hair regeneration. HFSCs represent an excellent paradigm for studying tissue regeneration and somatic stem cell homeostasis. However, these crucial studies are hampered by the lack of a culture system able to stably expand human HFSCs and regulate their fate. RESULTS: Here, we use layer-by-layer (LbL) self-assembly with gelatin/alginate to construct a nanoscale biomimetic extracellular matrix (ECM) for an HFSC population. The LbL coating provides ECM and mechanical support for individual cells, which helps to maintain the CD200+alpha6+ HFSC population to a certain extent. Addition of key signal molecules (FGF-7 and VEGF-A) simulates the minimum essential components of the stem cell microenvironment, thereby effectively and stably expanding HFSCs and maintaining the CD200+alpha6+ HFSC population. Subsequently, BMP2 loaded to the nanocoated layer, as a slow-release signal molecule, activates BMP signaling to regulate HFSCs' fate in order to obtain a purified CD200+alpha6+ HFSC population. CONCLUSION: This system can minimize the microenvironment of HFSCs; thus, stably amplifying HFSCs and revealing their plasticity. Our study thus provides a new tool for studies of hair follicle reconstruction and stem cell homeostasis.

33921970
Micro-Current Stimulation Has Potential Effects of Hair Growth-Promotion on Human Hair Follicle-Derived Papilla Cells and Animal Model.
Recently, a variety of safe and effective non-pharmacological methods have been introduced as new treatments of alopecia. Micro-current electrical stimulation (MCS) is one of them. It is generally known to facilitate cell proliferation and differentiation and promote cell migration and ATP synthesis. This study aimed to investigate the hair growth-promoting effect of MCS on human hair follicle-derived papilla cells (HFDPC) and a telogenic mice model. We examined changes in cell proliferation, migration, and cell cycle progression with MCS-applied HFDPC. The changes of expression of the cell cycle regulatory proteins, molecules related to the PI3K/AKT/mTOR/Fox01 pathway and Wnt/beta-catenin pathway were also examined by immunoblotting. Subsequently, we evaluated the various growth factors in developing hair follicles by RT-PCR in MCS-applied (MCS) mice model. From the results, the MCS-applied groups with specific levels showed effects on HFDPC proliferation and migration and promoted cell cycle progression and the expression of cell cycle-related proteins. Moreover, these levels significantly activated the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway and PI3K/AKT/mTOR/Fox01 pathway. Various growth factors in developing hair follicles, including Wnts, FGFs, IGF-1, and VEGF-B except for VEGF-A, significantly increased in MCS-applied mice. Our results may confirm that MCS has hair growth-promoting effect on HFDPC as well as telogenic mice model, suggesting a potential treatment strategy for alopecia.

33933312
REGgamma regulates hair cycle by activating Lgr5 positive hair follicle stem cells.
BACKGROUND: REGgamma acts as a proteasome activating factor mediating proteasome degradation of substrate proteins in an ATP and ubiquitination independent manner and also as an important regulator of cell cycle, proliferation and apoptosis. Hair cycle involves dynamic, continuous morphological changes of three stages (anagen, catagen and telogen). OBJECTIVE: The function of REGgamma in hair cycling is still unclear. METHODS: Here, we used REGgamma knockout 293 T cells, inducible 293WT and 293N151Y cell, REGgamma knockout mice to identify the novel molecular mechanism of REGgamma in regulating hair follicle stem cells. RESULTS: In the present study, we found that REGgamma deletion markedly delayed the transition of hair follicles from telogen to anagen and hair regeneration in mice. We also observed significant decrease of hair follicle stem cell number, stem-like property and proliferation ability. Interestingly, the results from real-time PCR, FACS, Western Blot and immunofluorescent analysis showed that REGgamma deletion could greatly downregulate Lgr5 expression in the hair follicles. Meanwhile, REGgamma was demonstrated to directly interact with LHX2 and promotes its degradation. Importantly, REGgamma specific deletion in Lgr5+ stem cells induced the marked delay of hair regeneration after depilation. CONCLUSION: These data together indicate that REGgamma was a new mediator of Lgr5 expression in hair follicle at least partly by promoting the degradation of its suppressive transcription factor LHX2. It seemed that REGgamma regulated hair anagen entry and hair regrowth by activating Lgr5 positive hair follicle stem cells.

34008225
"Following historical tracks of hair follicle miniaturisation in patterned hair loss: Are elastin bodies the forgotten aetiology?"
"Pattern hair loss (PHL) is a chronic regressive condition of the scalp, where follicular miniaturisation and decreased scalp hair coverage occurs in affected areas. In all PHL cases, there is a measurable progressive shortening of the terminal hair growth duration, along with reduced linear growth rates. In both genders, PHL initially shows an increase in short telogen hairs <=30 mm in length, reflecting a cycle completion of under 6 months in affected terminal hair follicles. To understand the miniaturisation process, we re-examine the dynamics of miniaturisation and ask the question, why do miniaturised hair follicles resist treatment? In the light of recent developments in relation to hair regeneration, we looked back in the older literature for helpful clues lost to time and reprise a 1978 Hermann Pinkus observation of an array of elastin deposits beneath the dermal papilla following subsequent anagen/telogen transitions in male balding, originally described by Arao and Perkins who concluded that these changes provide a morphologic marker of the entire biologic process in the balding scalp. Thus, we have reviewed the role of the elastin-like bodies in hair pathology and we propose that alterations in elastin architecture may contribute to the failure of vellus-like hair reverting back to their terminal status and may indicate a new area for therapeutic intervention."

34053245
The Developmental & Molecular Requirements for Ensuring that Human Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Hair Follicle Bulge Stem Cells Have Acquired Competence for Hair Follicle Generation Following Transplantation.
When using human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to achieve hair follicle (HF) replacement, we found it best to emulate the earliest fundamental developmental processes of gastrulation, ectodermal lineage commitment, and dermogenesis. Viewing hiPSCs as a model of the epiblast, we exploited insights from mapping the dynamic up- and down-regulation of the developmental molecules that determine HF lineage in order to ascertain the precise differentiation stage and molecular requirements for grafting HF-generating progenitors. To yield an integrin-dependent lineage like the HF in vivo, we show that hiPSC derivatives should co-express, just prior to transplantation, the following combination of markers: integrins alpha6 and beta1 and the glycoprotein CD200 on their surface; and, intracellularly, the epithelial marker keratin 18 and the hair follicle bulge stem cell (HFBSC)-defining molecules transcription factor P63 and the keratins 15 and 19. If the degree of trichogenic responsiveness indicated by the presence of these molecules is not achieved (they peak on Days 11-18 of the protocol), HF generation is not possible. Conversely, if differentiation of the cells is allowed to proceed beyond the transient intermediate progenitor state represented by the HFBSC, and instead cascades to their becoming keratin 14+ keratin 5+ CD200- keratinocytes (Day 25), HF generation is equally impossible. We make the developmental case for transplanting at Day 16-18 of differentiation-the point at which the hiPSCs have lost pluripotency, have attained optimal expression of HFBSC markers, have not yet experienced downregulation of key integrins and surface glycoproteins, have not yet started expressing keratinocyte-associated molecules, and have sufficient proliferative capacity to allow a well-populated graft. This panel of markers may be used for isolating (by cytometry) HF-generating derivatives away from cell types unsuited for this therapy as well as for identifying trichogenic drugs.

34166673
Hair-Follicle Mesenchymal Stem Cell Activity during Homeostasis and Wound Healing.
The mesenchymal components of the hair follicle-the dermal papilla (DP) and dermal sheath (DS)-are maintained by hair follicle dermal stem cells, but the position of this stem cell population throughout the hair cycle, its contribution to the maintenance of the dermis, and the existence of a migratory axis from the DP to the dermis remain unclear. In this study, we show that during homeostasis DP and DS cells are confined to their compartments, and during the regression phase of the hair cycle, some DP/DS cells undergo apoptosis and subsequently are internalized by nearby adipocytes. In contrast, during wound healing, DP/DS cells move toward the wound but do not directly participate in follicle neogenesis. Furthermore, hair follicle dermal stem cells, driving the cyclic renewal of the DS during the hair cycle, are heterogeneous and are housed during the growth phase within the most proximal part of the DS. Our analysis provides insight into the mechanisms of tissue maintenance and reveals a potential function of adipocytes in phagocytosis.

34238037
Hair Follicle Stem Cells for Tissue Regeneration.
With the positive outcomes of various cell therapies currently under preclinical and clinical studies, there is a significant interest in novel stem cell sources with unique therapeutic properties. Studies over the past two decades or so demonstrated the feasibility to isolate multipotent/pluripotent stem cells from hair follicles. The easy accessibility, high proliferation, and differentiation ability as well as lack of ethical concerns associated with this stem cell source make hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) attractive candidate for cell therapy and tissue engineering. This review discusses the various stem cell types identified in rodent and human hair follicles and ongoing studies on the potential use of HFSCs for skin, bone, cardiovascular, and nerve tissue engineering. Impact statement Hair follicle stem cells are an autologous stem cell source, and recent preclinical and clinical studies demonstrated its unique properties to support and accelerate tissue regeneration, making it an attractive candidate for cell therapy and tissue engineering.

34380571
A systematic summary of survival and death signalling during the life of hair follicle stem cells.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are among the most widely available resources and most frequently approved model systems used for studying adult stem cells. HFSCs are particularly useful because of their self-renewal and differentiation properties. Additionally, the cyclic growth of hair follicles is driven by HFSCs. There are high expectations for the use of HFSCs as favourable systems for studying the molecular mechanisms that contribute to HFSC identification and can be applied to hair loss therapy, such as the activation or regeneration of hair follicles, and to the generation of hair using a tissue-engineering strategy. A variety of molecules are involved in the networks that critically regulate the fate of HFSCs, such as factors in hair follicle growth and development (in the Wnt pathway, Sonic hedgehog pathway, Notch pathway, and BMP pathway), and that suppress apoptotic cues (the apoptosis pathway). Here, we review the life cycle, biomarkers and functions of HFSCs, concluding with a summary of the signalling pathways involved in HFSC fate for promoting better understanding of the pathophysiological changes in the HFSC niche. Importantly, we highlight the potential mechanisms underlying the therapeutic targets involved in pathways associated with the treatment of hair loss and other disorders of skin and hair, including alopecia, skin cancer, skin inflammation, and skin wound healing.

34503498
Comprehensive transcriptome and methylome analysis delineates the biological basis of hair follicle development and wool-related traits in Merino sheep.
BACKGROUND: Characterization of the molecular mechanisms underlying hair follicle development is of paramount importance in the genetic improvement of wool-related traits in sheep and skin-related traits in humans. The Merino is the most important breed of fine-wooled sheep in the world. In this study, we systematically investigated the complexity of sheep hair follicle development by integrating transcriptome and methylome datasets from Merino sheep skin. RESULTS: We analysed 72 sequence datasets, including DNA methylome and the whole transcriptome of four gene types, i.e. protein-coding genes (PCGs), lncRNAs, circRNAs, and miRNAs, across four embryonic days (E65, E85, E105, and E135) and two postnatal days (P7 and P30) from the skin tissue of 18 Merino sheep. We revealed distinct expression profiles of these four gene types across six hair follicle developmental stages, and demonstrated their complex interactions with DNA methylation. PCGs with stage-specific expression or regulated by stage-specific lncRNAs, circRNAs, and miRNAs were significantly enriched in epithelial differentiation and hair follicle morphogenesis. Regulatory network and gene co-expression analyses identified key transcripts controlling hair follicle development. We further predicted transcriptional factors (e.g. KLF4, LEF1, HOXC13, RBPJ, VDR, RARA, and STAT3) with stage-specific involvement in hair follicle morphogenesis. Through integrating these stage-specific genomic features with results from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of five wool-related traits in 7135 Merino sheep, we detected developmental stages and genes that were relevant with wool-related traits in sheep. For instance, genes that were specifically upregulated at E105 were significantly associated with most of wool-related traits. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) demonstrated that candidate genes of wool-related traits (e.g. SPHK1, GHR, PPP1R27, CSRP2, EEF1A2, and PTPN1) in sheep were also significantly associated with dermatological, metabolic, and immune traits in humans. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides novel insights into the molecular basis of hair follicle morphogenesis and will serve as a foundation to improve breeding for wool traits in sheep. It also indicates the importance of studying gene expression in the normal development of organs in understanding the genetic architecture of economically important traits in livestock. The datasets generated here are useful resources for functionally annotating the sheep genome, and for elucidating early skin development in mammals, including humans.

34522176
Expression and localization of Sox10 during hair follicle morphogenesis and induced hair cycle.
Sox transcription factors play many diverse roles during development, including regulating stem cell states, directing differentiation, and influencing the local chromatin landscape. Sox10 has been implicated in the control of stem/progenitor activity and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, yet it has not been studied in relation to the hair follicle cycle or hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) control. To elucidate the role of Sox10 in hair follicle cycle control, we performed immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence analysis of its expression during hair morphogenesis, the postnatal hair cycle, and the depilation-induced murine hair follicle cycle. During hair follicle morphogenesis, Sox10 was expressed in the hair germ and peg. In telogen, we detected nuclear Sox10 in the hair bulge and germ cell cap, where HFSCs reside, while in anagen and catagen, Sox10 was detected in the epithelial portion, such as the strands of keratinocytes, the outer root sheath (ORS) in anagen, and the regressed epithelial strand of hair follicle in catagen. These results suggest that Sox10 may be involved in early hair follicle morphogenesis and postnatal follicular cycling.

34534715
A Single-cell Transcriptome Atlas of Cashmere Goat Hair Follicle Morphogenesis.
Cashmere, also known as soft gold, is produced from the secondary hair follicles (SHFs) of cashmere goats. The number of SHFs determines the yield and quality of cashmere, therefore, it is of interest to investigate the transcriptional profiles present during cashmere goat hair follicle development. However, mechanisms underlying this development remain largely unexplored and studies regarding hair follicle development mostly use a murine research model. To provide a comprehensive understanding of cellular heterogeneity and cell fate decisions, single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on 19,705 single cells of the dorsal skin from cashmere goat fetuses at induction (embryonic day 60), organogenesis (embryonic day 90), and cytodifferentiation (embryonic day 120) stages. For the first time, unsupervised clustering analysis identified 16 cell clusters, and their corresponding cell types were also characterized. Based on lineage inference, a detailed molecular landscape was revealed along the dermal and epidermal cell lineage developmental pathways. Notably, our current data also confirmed the heterogeneity of dermal papilla cells from different hair follicle types, which was further validated by immunohistochemical staining analysis. The current study identifies different biomarkers during cashmere goat hair follicle development and has implications for cashmere goat breeding in the future.

34546465
Low-level laser treatment promotes skin wound healing by activating hair follicle stem cells in female mice.
The aim of the study was to explore the effect and mechanism of a low-level laser on hair follicle stem cells in full-thickness skin wound healing in mice. Full-thickness skin defects were generated by a 5-mm punch biopsy tool on the backs of depilated C57/BL6N mice, which were randomly divided thereafter into a low-dose laser treatment group (LLLT-Low), a high-dose laser treatment group (LLLT-High), and a control group (control). From the day of modeling to the day before the skin samples were taken, the wound area and wound edge of the mice in the LLLT-Low and LLLT-High groups were irradiated with a laser comb every 24 h, and the energy density was 1 J/cm2 and 10 J/cm2, respectively. The control group was irradiated with an ordinary fluorescent lamp. At 0, 3, 5, 10, and 14 days after modeling, pictures of each wound were taken, and the percent wound closure was analyzed. At 3, 5, 10, and 14 days after modeling, the samples were observed by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) and immunofluorescence (IF) staining. Whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) was performed on the samples on day 10. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis was performed, and the results were validated by Western blot analysis and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The analysis of the percent of wound closure showed that healing was accelerated (significantly from 5 to 10 days) in the LLLT-Low group, but there was no clear change in the LLLT-High group. HE staining showed that the LLLT-Low group had an increasing number of hair follicles and a tendency to migrate to the center of the wound. There was no significant increase in the number of hair follicles and no obvious migration in the LLLT-High group. Immunofluorescence staining showed that the total number of CK15 + hair follicle stem cells in the LLLT-Low group was higher than that in the control group and LLLT-High group at all time points. The number and farthest migration distance of CK15 + hair follicle stem cells increased significantly with time, and after 5 days, they were significantly higher than those in the control group and LLLT-High group. RNA-Seq and Western blot analysis showed that the expression of related genes in hair follicle stem cells, including CK15, in the LLLT-Low group was upregulated. GO analysis and ELISA showed that the expression of many cytokines, represented by IL34, in the LLLT-Low group was upregulated. Low-level laser treatment can promote the proliferation, differentiation, and migration of CK15 + hair follicle stem cells by upregulating the cytokine IL34, thereby promoting skin wound healing in mice.

34587317
The hair follicle-psoriasis axis: Shared regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic targets.
"It has long been known that there is a special affinity of psoriasis for the scalp: Here, it occurs most frequently, lesions terminate sharply in frontal skin beyond the hair line and are difficult to treat. Yet, surprisingly, scalp psoriasis only rarely causes alopecia, even though the pilosebaceous unit clearly is affected. Here, we systematically explore the peculiar, insufficiently investigated connection between psoriasis and growing (anagen) terminal scalp hair follicles (HFs), with emphasis on shared regulatory mechanism and therapeutic targets. Interestingly, several drugs and stressors that can trigger/aggravate psoriasis can inhibit hair growth (e.g. beta-blockers, chloroquine, carbamazepine, interferon-alpha, perceived stress). Instead, several anti-psoriatic agents can stimulate hair growth (e.g. cyclosporine, glucocorticoids, dithranol, UV irradiation), while skin/HF trauma (Kobner phenomenon/depilation) favours the development of psoriatic lesions and induces anagen in quiescent (telogen) HFs. On this basis, we propose two interconnected working models: (a) the existence of a bidirectional hair follicle-psoriasis axis, along which keratinocytes of anagen scalp HFs secrete signals that favour the development and maintenance of psoriatic scalp lesions and respond to signals from these lesions, and (b) that anagen induction and psoriatic lesions share molecular switch-on mechanisms, which invite pharmacological targeting, once identified. Therefore, we advocate a novel, cross-fertilizing and integrative approach to psoriasis and hair research that systematically characterizes the HF-psoriasis axis, focused on identification and therapeutic targeting of selected, shared signalling pathways in the future management of both, psoriasis and hair growth disorders."

34625979
Vitamin A alleviates heat stress-induced damage to hair follicle development in Rex rabbits.
BACKGROUND: Rex rabbits are important fur rabbits. Heat stress severely reduces the fur quality of Rex rabbits. The aim of this study was to experimentally investigate the effect of dietary vitamin A (VA) addition on hair follicle development and related signal pathways in Rex rabbits under heat stress. RESULTS: In the experiment, 90 Rex rabbits were randomly divided into three groups: control group (20-25  C, fed basic diet), heat stress group (30-34  C, fed basic diet), and heat stress + VA group (20-25  C, fed 12 000 IU/kg VA in addition to the basic diet). VA could significantly increase the hair follicle density (P < 0.01), hair length (P < 0.05), and the ratio of secondary to primary hair follicles (P < 0.05). In addition, VA could significantly inhibit the expression of BMP2, BMP4, FGF5, TGF-beta1, and miR-214 in heat-stressed Rex rabbits and significantly increase the expression of noggin, IGF1, IGF1R, Wnt10b, CTNNB1, SHH, and miR-203 and the levels of Wnt10b and p-beta-catenin; however, there was no significant effect of VA on the expression of EGF and miR-205. CONCLUSION: The dietary addition of VA can increase the hair follicle density and fur quality of heat-stressed Rex rabbits. Wnt10/beta-catenin, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), fibroblast growth factor 5 (FGF5), noggin-BMP, and sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling were associated with VA regulation under heat stress. It is possible that miR-205 and miR-194 contribute to the regulation of Wnt10/beta-catenin and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling.   2021 Society of Chemical Industry.

34674748
Hair follicle-derived mesenchymal stem cells decrease alopecia areata mouse hair loss and reduce inflammation around the hair follicle.
BACKGROUND: Alopecia areata (AA) is a common autoimmune hair loss disease with increasing incidence. Corticosteroids are the most widely used for hair loss treatment; however, long-term usage of hormonal drugs is associated with various side effects. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) therapy has been studied extensively to curb autoimmune diseases without affecting immunity against diseases. METHODS: Hair follicle-derived MSCs (HF-MSCs) were harvested from the waste material of hair transplants, isolated and expanded. The therapeutic effect of HF-MSCs for AA treatment was investigated in vitro AA-like hair follicle organ model and in vivo C3H/HeJ AA mice model. RESULTS: AA-like hair follicle organ in vitro model was successfully established by pre-treatment of mouse vibrissa follicles by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). The AA-like symptoms were relieved when IFN-gamma induced AA in vitro model was co-cultured with HF-MSC for 2 days. In addition, when skin grafted C3H/HeJ AA mice models were injected with 106 HF-MSCs once a week for 3 weeks, the transcription profiling and immunofluorescence analysis depicted that HF-MSCs treatment significantly decreased mouse hair loss and reduced inflammation around HF both in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a new therapeutic approach for alopecia areata based on HF-MSCs toward its future clinical application.

34678305
Engineered extracellular vesicle mimetics from macrophage promotes hair growth in mice and promotes human hair follicle growth.
Recent studies clearly show that cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs, including exosomes) can promote hair growth. However, large-scale production of EVs remains a big hurdle. Recently, extracellular vesicle mimetics (EMs) engineered by extrusion through various membranes are emerging as a complementary approach for large-scale production. In this study, to investigate their ability to induce hair growth, we generated macrophage-engineered EMs (MAC-EMs) that activated the human dermal papilla (DP) cells in vitro. MAC-EMs intradermally injected into the skin of C57BL/6 mice were retained for up to 72 h. Microscopy imaging revealed that MAC-EMs were predominately internalized into hair follicles. The MAC-EMs treatment induced hair regrowth in mice and hair shaft elongation in a human hair follicle, suggesting the potential of MAC-EMs as an alternative to EVs to overcome clinical limitation.

34715152
Injectable platelet rich fibrin facilitates hair follicle regeneration by promoting human dermal papilla cell proliferation, migration, and trichogenic inductivity.
Hair follicle regeneration has been successful in mice but failed in human being for years. Dermal papilla cells, a specialized mesenchymal stem cell derived from dermal papilla within hair follicles, is considered the key cells for hair follicle regeneration function as both regeneration initiator and regulator. Injectable platelet rich fibrin (i-PRF), a novel biomaterial rich in a variety of growth factors and three-dimensional scaffolds, has shown promising effects on tissue regeneration. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the application of i-PRF in human hair follicle regeneration by examining the biological effects of i-PRF on human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs). Biomaterial compatibility, cell viability, proliferation, migration, alkaline phosphatase activity and trichogenic inductivity were assessed after exposing hDPCs to different concentrations of i-PRF extracts. In addition, we investigated the ultrastructure of i-PRF with all cell components filtered. The results revealed that i-PRF possessing excellent biocompatibility and could significantly promote hDPCs proliferation, migration, and trichogenic inductivity. Furthermore, the concentration of i-PRF is able to remarkably influence hDPCs behavior in a dose-dependent pattern. Different concentrations exhibited differential effects on hDPCs behavior. In general, lower concentration promotes cell proliferation better than higher concentration, while higher concentration promotes cell function better reversely. Best concentration for hDPCs in vitro expending is 1% concentration. 20% concentration is optimal for hair follicle regeneration. In summary, our findings concluded that i-PRF facilitates hair follicle regeneration by promoting human dermal papilla cell proliferation, migration, and trichogenic inductivity.

34904913
Establishment of Angora rabbits' whisker hair follicle model and optimal culture conditions.
To establish the model of whisker hair follicle culture in vitro and explore the best culture conditions, the whisker hair follicles of Angora rabbits were separated with stereomicroscope and cultured in William's E, DMEM, MEM media. The surface of the cultured whisker hair follicles was not damaged due to manual operation, resulting in the hair shaft's growth. This indicated the success of the in vitro whisker hair follicle model. The hair shaft grew at the fastest rate in the William's E culture (p < 0.05), which was significantly higher than that in the DMEM and MEM media. The hematoxylin-eosin results showed that compared to the William's E group, the atrophy of whisker hair follicles in the DMEM and MEM media was evident, especially in the MEM medium. PCNA immunofluorescence staining was employed to detect the expression of whisker hair follicles. The results showed that the PCNA positive expression of the William's E group was significantly stronger than that of the DMEM and MEM groups. Furthermore, CCK-8 and Annexin V-FITC/PI methods were used to detect the proliferation and apoptosis of the dermal papilla cells (DPCs). The results of this study provide a model for studying the hair growth of fur animals.

35171714
MicroRNA-149-mediated MAPK1/ERK2 Suppression Attenuates Hair Follicle stem Cell Differentiation.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are responsible for hair growth and hair follicle (HF) regeneration. microRNAs (miRNAs) have been demonstrated to be involved in the differentiation of HFSCs. Thus, present study aimed to explore the potential role of miR-149 in the differentiation of HFSCs. The isolated HFSCs were identified by flow cytometric sorting. miR-149 expression was determined during differentiation of HFSCs. Gain- and loss-of-function approaches were conducted to explore the roles of miR-149, MAPK1/ERK2, and FGF2/c-MYC in colony formation and proliferation of HFSCs. Furthermore, in vivo assays were undertaken in miR-149 knockout mice to confirm their roles in HFSC differentiation. miR-149 was found to be down-regulated during HFSC differentiation, and overexpressed miR-149 restricted the proliferation and differentiation of HFSCs. miR-149 was confirmed to target and inhibit MAPK1/ERK2, which was highly expressed in and positively associated with HFSC differentiation. The MAPK1/ERK2 promotion in HFSC differentiation was achieved by augmenting expression of FGF2 and c-MYC. The in vitro effects of miR-149 were validated in in vivo experiments. Taken together, up-regulated miR-149 restricted HFSC differentiation and hair growth by targeting MAPK1/ERK2 to reduce expression of FGF2 and c-MYC, which sheds light on the underlying molecular mechanism on hair growth.

35172715
Time-course RNA-seq analysis reveals stage-specific and melatonin-triggered gene expression patterns during the hair follicle growth cycle in Capra hircus.
BACKGROUND: Cashmere goat is famous for its high-quality fibers. The growth of cashmere in secondary hair follicles exhibits a seasonal pattern arising from circannual changes in the natural photoperiod. Although several studies have compared and analyzed the differences in gene expression between different hair follicle growth stages, the selection of samples in these studies relies on research experience or morphological evidence. Distinguishing hair follicle growth cycle according to gene expression patterns may help to explore the regulation mechanisms related to cashmere growth and the effect of melatonin from a molecular level more accurately. RESULTS: In this study, we applied RNA-sequencing to the hair follicles of three normal and three melatonin-treated Inner Mongolian cashmere goats sampled every month during a whole hair follicle growth cycle. A total of 3559 and 988 genes were subjected as seasonal changing genes (SCGs) in the control and treated groups, respectively. The SCGs in the normal group were divided into three clusters, and their specific expression patterns help to group the hair follicle growth cycle into anagen, catagen and telogen stages. Some canonical pathways such as Wnt, TGF-beta and Hippo signaling pathways were detected as promoting the hair follicle growth, while Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), Cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, Jak-STAT, Fc epsilon RI, NOD-like receptor, Rap1, PI3K-Akt, cAMP, NF-kappa B and many immune-related pathways were detected in the catagen and telogen stages. The PI3K-Akt signaling, ECM-receptor interaction and Focal adhesion were found in the transition stage between telogen to anagen, which may serve as candidate biomarkers for telogen-anagen regeneration. A total of 16 signaling pathways, 145 pathway mRNAs, and 93 lncRNAs were enrolled to construct the pathway-mRNA-lncRNA network, which indicated the function of lncRNAs through interacting with their co-expressed mRNAs. Pairwise comparisons between the control and melatonin-treated groups also indicated 941 monthly differentially expressed genes (monthly DEGs). These monthly DEGs were mainly distributed from April and September, which revealed a potential signal pathway map regulating the anagen stage triggered by melatonin. Enrichment analysis showed that Wnt, Hedgehog, ECM, Chemokines and NF-kappa B signaling pathways may be involved in the regulation of non-quiescence and secondary shedding under the influence of melatonin. CONCLUSIONS: Our study decoded the key regulators of the whole hair follicle growth cycle, laying the foundation for the control of hair follicle growth and improvement of cashmere yield.

35201673
The application of electrolysis of depigmented hair using a trichiasis electrolyzer combined with single hair follicle transplantation for the treatment of vitiligo-associated leukotrichia.
Leukotrichia is one of the difficulties of vitiligo treatment. Hair follicle transplantation is an efficient method to treat vitiligo-associated leukotrichia. A trichiasis electrolyzer, commonly used for treating trichiasis, can be used to damage and remove the depigmented hair follicles. To evaluate the efficacy of the electrolysis of depigmented hair using a trichiasis electrolyzer combined with single hair follicle transplantation for the treatment of vitiligo-associated leukotrichia. A total of 15 patients with stable vitiligo-associated eyebrow and eyelash leukotrichia were enrolled from Department of Dermatology, Hangzhou Third People's Hospital between January 2020 and January 2021. All patients were treated using a trichiasis electrolyzer combined with single hair follicle transplantation. The patients were followed up at the first week, the first month, the third month, and the sixth month after surgery. The texture and growth state of the transplanted hair were observed, and the number of surviving transplanted follicles and regenerating depigmented follicles were recorded. The transplanted hair grew as expected with natural shape. No local infection or obvious scar was observed. Most of the depigmented hair in the lesion area re-pigmented and only a few depigmented hairs regenerated. The average survival rate of the transplanted hair follicles was 71.6%, and the average regeneration rate of the depigmented hair was 11.6%. The electrolysis of depigmented hair using a trichiasis electrolyzer combined with single hair follicle transplantation was an effective and safe method to treat vitiligo-associated leukotrichia.

35202721
Single-cell sequencing reveals the new existence form of dermal papilla cells in the hair follicle regeneration of cashmere goats.
The problem of human hair loss has caused widespread concern, however, such research is difficult because the periodicity is not obvious and the deeper levels knowledge of dermal papilla (DP) stem cells' differentiation are limited. Here, cashmere goats which have obvious periodicity of hair follicles were used, based on unbiased scRNA sequencing, we constructed DP cell lineage differentiation trajectory and revealed the key genes, signals and functions involved in cell fate decisions. And then we revealed the molecular landscape of hair follicle on regeneration. Revealed that DP cells differentiate into four intermediate cell states at different periodicity: Intermediate-cell-10 showed important functions in the growth and maintenance of cashmere; intermediate-cell-1 acting on apoptosis and cashmere shedding; intermediate-cell-0 initiated new follicular cycles, the migration of hair follicles and the occurrence of cashmere; and intermediate-cell-15 are suggested to be DP progenitor cells. In general, we provide new insights for hair regrowth. At the same time, it provides a new research ideas, directions and molecular landscape for the mechanism of dermal papilla cells.

35205386
Integrated Hair Follicle Profiles of microRNAs and mRNAs to Reveal the Pattern Formation of Hu Sheep Lambskin.
Hair follicle development is closely associated with wool curvature. Current studies reveal the crucial role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in hair follicle growth and development. However, few studies are known regarding their role in wool curvature. To reveal the potential roles of miRNAs in Hu sheep lambskin with different patterns, a total of 37 differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs were identified in hair follicles between small waves (SM) and straight wool (ST) groups using RNA-seq. Through functional enrichment and miRNA-mRNA co-expression analysis, some key miRNAs (oar-miR-143, oar-miR-200b, oar-miR-10a, oar-miR-181a, oar-miR-10b, oar-miR-125b, etc.) and miRNA-mRNA pairs (miR-125b target CD34, miR-181a target FGF12, LMO3, miR-200b target ZNF536, etc.) were identified. Though direct or indirect ways affecting hair follicle development, these miRNAs and mRNAs may have possible effects on wool curvature, and this study thus provides valuable insight on potential pattern formation.

35426064
MiR-149-5p promotes beta-catenin-induced goat hair follicle stem cell differentiation.
The Yangtze River Delta white goat is a unique goat species that can produce superior-quality brush hair. The formation of superior-quality brush hair cannot occur without goat hair follicle stem cell differentiation. However, knowledge regarding the regulatory role of miR-149-5p in hair follicle stem cell differentiation is limited. Here, we found that miR-149-5p is widely expressed in the tissues of Yangtze River Delta white goats, but its expression in the skin tissue of superior-quality brush hair goats is high compared to normal- quality goats. The functional studies showed that miR-149-5p overexpression markedly facilitated hair follicle stem cell differentiation, whereas inhibiting miR-149-5p inhibited hair follicle stem cell differentiation. These results more clearly elucidate the regulatory role of miR-149-5p in hair follicle stem cell growth.

35440400
TERT/BMI1-transgenic human dermal papilla cells enhance murine hair follicle formation in vivo.
BACKGROUND: Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) are one type of mesenchymal cells; they play a key role on hair follicle induction. Their hair inductivity and proliferation abilities are rapidly lost during the 2-dimensional culture. Cell senescence is induced by inadequate culture conditions and telomere shortening. We previously reported that overexpression of TERT coding telomerase reverse transcriptase and BMI1 coding human B-cell-specific Moloney murine leukemia virus insertion region 1 (BMI1) avoided senescence of murine DPC and restored hair inductive activity. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the function of TERT and BMI1 in the human DPCs (hDPCs). METHODS: Cultured hDPCs obtained from human scalp hair were transduced with TERT alone (hDP-T), BMI1 alone (hDP-B), both TERT and BMI1 (hDP-TB) and empty vector (hDP-E). The hair inductive activity of those cells was assessed by chamber assay in vivo. Gene expressions were analyzed by quantitative PCR (q-PCR). RESULTS: hDP-TB proliferated more than hDP-T and hDP-B in vitro and only hDP-TB showed hair inductivity in vivo. Moreover, the expressions of VCAN, CTNNB1, LEF1, FGF7 and VEGFA in hDP-TB were elevated compared to those in hDP-E. CONCLUSION: Overexpression of both TERT and BMI1 extends the life span of cultured hDPCs and ameliorates their hair inducing ability on mouse hair follicles.

35469170
Type 2 Diabetic Mellitus Inhibits Skin Renewal through Inhibiting WNT-Dependent Lgr5+ Hair Follicle Stem Cell Activation in C57BL/6 Mice.
Background: Hair follicles are important accessory organs of the skin, and it is important for skin renewal and performs variety of important functions. Diabetes can cause several dermatoses; however, its effect on hair follicles is unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of type II diabetes (T2DM) on the hair follicles of mice. Methods: Seven-week-old male C57BL/6 littermate mice were divided into two groups. The treatment group was injected with streptozotocin (STZ) to induce T2DM, and the control group was parallelly injected with the same dose of buffer. Seven days after injection, the back is depilated to observe the hair follicle regeneration. Hair follicle regeneration was observed by naked eyes and HE staining. The proliferation of the skin cells was observed by PCNA and K14 staining. The altered genes were screened by RNA sequencing and verified by qRT-PCR. In addition, Lgr5 + GFP/mTmG transgenic mice were used to observe the effect of T2DM on Lgr5 hair follicle stem cells (HFSC). And the expression of WNT4 and WNT8A were measured by Western Blot. Results: T2DM inhibited hair follicle regeneration. Compared to control mice, T2DM mice had smaller hair follicles, reduced skin thickness, and less expression of PCNA and K14. RNA sequencing showed that the two groups had significant differences in cell cycle and proliferation-related pathways. Compared with the control mice, the mRNA expression of Lgr4, Lgr5, Wnt4, and Wnt8a was decreased in the T2DM group. Moreover, T2DM inhibited the activation of Lgr5 HFSC and the expression of WNT4 and WNT8A. Conclusions: T2DM inhibited hair follicle regeneration and skin cells proliferation by inhibiting WNT-dependent Lgr5 HFSC activation. This may be an important reason for the reduction of skin renewal ability and the formation of chronic wounds caused by diabetes. It is important for the treatment of chronic diabetic wounds and the development of tissue engineering.

35524394
Dysregulated behaviour of hair follicle stem cells triggers alopecia and provides potential therapeutic targets.
Due to a steady increase in the number of individuals suffering from alopecia, this condition has recently received increasing attention. Alopecia can be caused by various pathological, environmental or psychological factors, eventually resulting in abnormalities in hair follicle (HF) structures or HF regeneration disorders, especially dysregulated hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) behaviour. HFSC behaviour includes activation, proliferation and differentiation. Appropriate HFSC behaviour sustains a persistent hair cycle (HC). HFSC behaviour is mainly influenced by HFSC metabolism, ageing, and the microenvironment. In this review, we summarize recent findings on how HFSC metabolism, ageing and the microenvironment give rise to hair growth disorders, as well as related genes and signalling pathways. Recent research on the application of stem cell-based hair tissue engineering and regenerative medicine to treat alopecia is also summarized. Determining how dysregulated HFSC behaviour underlies alopecia would be helpful in identifying potential therapeutic targets.

35619120
The stem cell quiescence and niche signaling is disturbed in the hair follicle of the hairpoor mouse, an MUHH model mouse.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle stem cells (HFSC) play an essential role in the maintenance of hair homeostasis; during the hair cycle, HFSC remain quiescent for most of its duration. The hairpoor mouse (+ /HrHp), an animal model of Marie-Unna hypotrichosis (MUHH), overexpresses hairless in the bulge, inner root sheath, and outer root sheath of HF and shows the same phenotype as in MUHH patients manifesting sparse hair with progression to alopecia with age. The aim of this study was to gain an understanding of the hair cycle and the status of HFSC during the hair cycle of the hairpoor mouse in order to delineate the pathogenesis of MUHH. METHODS: H&E staining was performed in order to define the state of the hair follicle. FACS analysis and immunostaining were performed at the 1st and 2nd telogen stages for observation of the HFSC. A label retaining assay was performed to determine the quiescent state of hair follicles. qRT-PCR was performed to determine expression of factors involved in niche signaling and Wnt signaling. RESULTS: We observed a drastic decrease in the number of hair follicles after the 1st telogen, followed by an intensified disturbance in the hair cycle with shorter anagen as well as 2nd telogen in the hairpoor mouse. A dramatic reduction in the number of CD34 expressing bulges as well as cells was observed at the telogen of the HFs, with prominent high proliferation of bulge cells, suggesting the loss of HFSC quiescence in the hairpoor mouse. The increased cell proliferation in HF was reiterated following the synchronization of the hair cycle, leading to acceleration of HF cycling. Reduced expression of Fgf18 and Bmp6, the factors involved in HFSC quiescence, was observed in the HFSC niche of the hairpoor mouse. In addition, disturbed expression of Wnt signaling molecules including Wnt7b, Wnt10b, and Sfrp1 was observed, which induced the telogen-to-anagen transition of HFs in the hairpoor mouse. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that the quiescent state of HFSC is not properly maintained in the hairpoor mouse, consequently leading HFs to the completely disarrayed hair cycle. These findings may provide an understanding of an underlying mechanism for development of alopecia with age in MUHH patients.

35648219
Role of the soluble epoxide hydrolase in the hair follicle stem cell homeostasis and hair growth.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are used as traditional remedies to treat hair loss, but the mechanisms underlying their beneficial effects are not well understood. Here, we explored the role of PUFA metabolites generated by the cytochrome P450/soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) pathway in the regulation of the hair follicle cycle. Histological analysis of the skin from wild-type and sEH-/- mice revealed that sEH deletion delayed telogen to anagen transition, and the associated activation of hair follicle stem cells. Interestingly, EdU labeling during the late anagen stage revealed that hair matrix cells from sEH-/- mice proliferated at a greater rate which translated into increased hair growth. Similar effects were observed in in vitro studies using hair follicle explants, where a sEH inhibitor was also able to augment whisker growth in follicles from wild-type mice. sEH activity in the dorsal skin was not constant but altered with the cell cycle, having the most prominent effects on levels of the linoleic acid derivatives 12,13-epoxyoctadecenoic acid (12,13-EpOME), and 12,13-dihydroxyoctadecenoic acid (12,13-DiHOME). Fitting with this, the sEH substrate 12,13-EpOME significantly increased hair shaft growth in isolated anagen stage hair follicles, while its diol; 12,13-DiHOME, had no effect. RNA sequencing of isolated hair matrix cells implicated altered Wnt signaling in the changes associated with sEH deletion. Taken together, our data indicate that the activity of the sEH in hair follicle changes during the hair follicle cycle and impacts on two stem cell populations, i.e., hair follicle stem cells and matrix cells to affect telogen to anagen transition and hair growth.

35650234
LGR5 is a conserved marker of hair follicle stem cells in multiple species and is present early and throughout follicle morphogenesis.
Hair follicle stem cells are key for driving growth and homeostasis of the hair follicle niche, have remarkable regenerative capacity throughout hair cycling, and display fate plasticity during cutaneous wound healing. Due to the need for a transgenic reporter, essentially all observations related to LGR5-expressing hair follicle stem cells have been generated using transgenic mice, which have significant differences in anatomy and physiology from the human. Using a transgenic pig model, a widely accepted model for human skin and human skin repair, we demonstrate that LGR5 is a marker of hair follicle stem cells across species in homeostasis and development. We also report the strong similarities and important differences in expression patterns, gene expression profiles, and developmental processes between species. This information is important for understanding the fundamental differences and similarities across species, and ultimately improving human hair follicle regeneration, cutaneous wound healing, and skin cancer treatment.

35660551
The impact of perceived stress on the hair follicle: Towards solving a psychoneuroendocrine and neuroimmunological puzzle.
"While popular belief harbors little doubt that perceived stress can cause hair loss and premature graying, the scientific evidence for this is arguably much thinner. Here, we investigate whether these phenomena are real, and show that the cyclic growth and pigmentation of the hair follicle (HF) provides a tractable model system for dissecting how perceived stress modulates aspects of human physiology. Local production of stress-associated neurohormones and neurotrophins coalesces with neurotransmitters and neuropeptides released from HF-associated sensory and autonomic nerve endings, forming a complex local stress-response system that regulates perifollicular neurogenic inflammation, interacts with the HF microbiome and controls mitochondrial function. This local system integrates into the central stress response systems, allowing the study of systemic stress responses affecting organ function by quantifying stress mediator content of hair. Focusing on selected mediators in this brain-HF axis under stress conditions, we distill general principles of HF dysfunction induced by perceived stress."

35672687
Gene network analysis reveals candidate genes related with the hair follicle development in sheep.
BACKGROUND: Merino sheep are the most famous fine wool sheep in the world. They have high wool production and excellent wool quality and have attracted worldwide attention. The fleece of the Merino sheep is composed predominantly of wool fibers grown from secondary wool follicles. Therefore, it is necessary to study the development of hair follicles to understand the mechanism of wool production. The hair follicle is a complex biological system involved in a dynamic process governed by gene regulation. The hair follicle development process is very complex and poorly understood. The purpose of our research is to identify candidate genes related to hair follicle development, provide a theoretical molecular breeding basis for the cultivation of fine wool sheep, and provide a reference for the problems of hair loss and alopecia areata that affect human beings. RESULTS: We analyzed mRNAs data in skin tissues of 18 Merino sheep at four embryonic days (E65, E85, E105 and E135) and two postnatal days (P7 and P30). G1 to G6 represent hair follicles developmental at six stages (i.e. E65 to P30). We identified 7879 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 12623 novel DEGs, revealed different expression patterns of these DEGs at six stages of hair follicle development, and demonstrated their complex interactions. DEGs with stage-specific expression were significantly enriched in epidermal differentiation and development, hair follicle development and hair follicle morphogenesis and were enriched in many pathways related to hair follicle development. The key genes (LAMA5, WNT10A, KRT25, SOSTDC1, ZDHHC21, FZD1, BMP7, LRP4, TGFbeta2, TMEM79, SOX10, ITGB4, KRT14, ITGA6, and GLI2) affecting hair follicle morphogenesis were identified by network analysis. CONCLUSION: This study provides a new reference for the molecular basis of hair follicle development and lays a foundation for further improving sheep hair follicle breeding. Candidate genes related to hair follicular development were found, which provided a theoretical basis for molecular breeding for the culture of fine wool sheep. These results are a valuable resource for biological investigations of fleece evolution in animals.

35741797
Effect of miR-101 on the Proliferation and Apoptosis of Goat Hair Follicle Stem Cells.
The Yangtze River Delta white goat is a rare goat species capable of producing high-quality brush hair. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 1 (DUSP1) may play a role in the formation of high-quality brush hair, as evidenced by our previous research. We investigated the potential mechanisms that regulate the proliferation and apoptosis of goat hair follicle stem cells. We particularly focused on the relationship between DUSP1 and miR-101, which directly targets DUSP1, predicted and screened through bioinformatics websites. Then, fluorescence assays, flow cytometry, RT-qPCR, and Western blotting were used to investigate the effects of miR-101 on the proliferation and apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells. We found that miR-101 overexpression significantly decreased (p < 0.01) apoptosis and promoted the proliferation of hair follicle stem cells. Furthermore, the overexpression of miR-101 increased (p < 0.05) the mRNA and protein expression levels of the proliferation-related gene (PCNA) and anti-apoptotic gene (Bcl-2), and it decreased (p < 0.05) the mRNA and protein expression levels of the apoptotic gene (Bax). In conclusion, miR-101 can promote the proliferation of and inhibit the apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells by targeting DUSP1, which provides a theoretical basis for further elucidating the molecular mechanism that regulates the production of high-quality brush hair of Yangtze River Delta white goats.

35777353
Hedgehog signaling reprograms hair follicle niche fibroblasts to a hyper-activated state.
Hair follicle stem cells are regulated by dermal papilla fibroblasts, their principal signaling niche. Overactivation of Hedgehog signaling in the niche dramatically accelerates hair growth and induces follicle multiplication in mice. On single-cell RNA sequencing, dermal papilla fibroblasts increase heterogeneity to include new Wnt5ahigh states. Transcriptionally, mutant fibroblasts activate regulatory networks for Gli1, Alx3, Ebf1, Hoxc8, Sox18, and Zfp239. These networks jointly upregulate secreted factors for multiple hair morphogenesis and hair-growth-related pathways. Among these is non-conventional TGF-beta ligand Scube3. We show that in normal mouse skin, Scube3 is expressed only in dermal papillae of growing, but not in resting follicles. SCUBE3 protein microinjection is sufficient to induce new hair growth, and pharmacological TGF-beta inhibition rescues mutant hair hyper-activation phenotype. Moreover, dermal-papilla-enriched expression of SCUBE3 and its growth-activating effect are partially conserved in human scalp hair follicles. Thus, Hedgehog regulates mesenchymal niche function in the hair follicle via SCUBE3/TGF-beta mechanism.

35849252
Cellular Heterogeneity Facilitates the Functional Differences Between Hair Follicle Dermal Sheath Cells and Dermal Papilla Cells: A New Classification System for Mesenchymal Cells within the Hair Follicle Niche.
"Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are known for their self-renewal and multi-lineage differentiation potential, with these cells often being evaluated in the regulation and maintenance of specific cellular niches including those of the hair follicle. Most mesenchymal stem cells in the hair follicles are housed in the dermal papilla (DP) and dermal sheath (DS), with both niches characterized by a broad variety of cellular subsets. However, while most previous studies describing the hair follicle mesenchymal niche treated all DP and DS cells as Hair Follicle Mesenchymal Stem Cells (HF-MSCs), the high number of cellular subsets would suggest that these cells are actually too heterogenous for such a broad definition. Given this we designed this study to evaluate the differentiation processes in these cells and used this data to create a new set of classifications for DP and DS cells, dividing them into hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (HF-MSCs), hair follicle mesenchymal progenitor cells (HF-MPCs), and hair follicle mesenchymal functional cells (HF-MFCs). In addition, those cells that possess self-renewal and differentiation were re-named hair follicle derived mesenchymal multipotent cells (HF-MMCs). This new classification may help to further our understanding of the heterogeneity of hair follicle dermal cells and provide new insights into their evaluation."

35858560
Sox2 in the dermal papilla regulates hair follicle pigmentation.
Within the hair follicle (HF) niche, dermal papilla (DP) cells are well known for the hair induction capacity; however, DP cell signaling also regulates HF pigmentation. Here we describe how Sox2 in the DP is a key regulator of melanocyte signaling. To study the largely unknown regulatory role the DP has on hair pigmentation, we characterize leptin receptor (Lepr) expression in the skin and as a genetic tool to target the DP. Sox2 ablation in the DP results in a phenotypic switch from eumelanin to pheomelanin. Mechanistically, we describe a temporal upregulation of Agouti and downregulation of Corin, directly by Sox2 in the DP. We also show that bone morphogenic protein (BMP) signaling regulation by Sox2 is responsible for downregulating MC1R, Dct, and Tyr in melanocytes of Sox2 cKO mice. Thus, we demonstrate that Sox2 in the DP regulates not only the choice of hair pigment but also the overall HF pigment production.

35881391
Methionine can subside hair follicle development prejudice of heat-stressed rex rabbits.
In the present experiment, we study the function of methionine on hair follicle development in heat-stressed Rex Rabbits and its potential molecular mechanism. Rex rabbits were randomly divided into 5 groups (30 replicates per group): control group (20-25 C, fed basic diet), heat stress group (30-34 C, fed basic diet), heat stress + methionine group (30-34 C, fed 0.15% methionine in addition to the basic diet). fed basic diet (control), heat stress + methionine group (30-34 C, fed 0.3% methionine in addition to the basic diet), heat stress + methionine group (30-34 C, fed 0.45% methionine in addition to the basic diet). The results show that heat stress decreases the hair follicle density of Rex rabbits, and the diet methionine addition significantly increases the hair follicle density of heat-stressed Rabbits (p < .05). Heat stress increased serum HSP70 concentration and skin HSP70 gene expression, 0.15%-0.3% methionine but not 0.45% addition alleviated the effect of heat stress. Dietary 0.15% methionine addition significantly increases the gene expression of Wnt10b, beta-catenin, LEF, FZD4, LRP6, Shh, HGF, EGF, and Noggin in heat-stressed Rex rabbits and observably decreases the gene expression of BMP2/4 and TGFb. There was no significant effect of methionine on the expression of IGF1 and FGF5/7 gene expression. In conclusion, methionine maybe promotes hair follicle development via TGFbeta-BMP/Shh-Noggin, Wnt10b/beta-catenin, EGF, and HGF signaling pathways in heat-stressed rabbits.

35902892
Ficoll density gradient sedimentation isolation of pelage hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells from adult mouse back skin: a novel method for hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells isolation.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (HF-MSCs) have great potential for cell therapy. Traditional method to isolate whisker HF-MSC is time-consuming and few in cell numbers. How to quickly and conveniently obtain a large number of HF-MSC for experimental research is a problem worth exploring. METHODS: Two-step Ficoll Density Gradient Sedimentation (FDGS) was performed to isolate pelage HF-MSC from adult mice. The characteristic of the isolated cells was identified and compared with whisker HF-MSC by immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry, three-lineage differentiation and hair follicle reconstruction. Pelage HF-MSC and exosomes were injected into the dorsal skin of mice as well as hair follicle organ culture to explore its role in promoting hair growth. The cells and exosomes distribution were located by immunofluorescence staining. RESULTS: Isolated pelage HF-MSC expressed similar markers (ALP, Versican, NCAM, Nestin), showed similar growth pattern, possessed similar mesenchymal stem cells function and hair follicle induction ability as whisker HF-MSC. A large number of cells can be obtained with fewer mice compared to traditional method. Injected pelage HF-MSC promoted hair growth by secreting exosomes. CONCLUSION: A large number of Pelage HF-MSC can be isolated by FDGS, which can promote hair growth by secreting exosomes which may target the dermal papilla and hair matrix region of host hair follicle.

35903712
Intrinsic ROS Drive Hair Follicle Cycle Progression by Modulating DNA Damage and Repair and Subsequently Hair Follicle Apoptosis and Macrophage Polarization.
Hair follicles (HFs) maintain homeostasis through the hair cycles; therefore, disrupting the hair cycle may lead to hair loss. Our previous study showed that apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) nuclear translocation and poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (PARP1) upregulation induced apoptosis in mouse hair follicles during the hair cycle transition from anagen to catagen. However, the mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains unclear. In this study, we found that intrinsic ROS levels increased during the hair follicle cycle transition from anagen to catagen, followed by abrupt DNA breaks and activation of homologous recombinant and nonhomologous end joining DNA repair, along with the enhancement of apoptosis. Mice in different stages of the hair cycle were sacrificed, and the dorsal skins were collected. The results of western blot and histological staining indicated that AIF-PARP1 plays a key role in HF apoptosis, but their role in the regulation of the HF cycle is not clear. Mice were treated with inhibitors from anagen to catagen: treatment with BMN 673, a PARP1 inhibitor, increased DNA breaks and activated the cytochrome c/caspase-3-mediated apoptotic pathway, accelerating HF regression. Ac-DEVD-CHO (Ac), a caspase-3 inhibitor, attenuated HF degeneration by upregulating PARP1 expression, suggesting a seesaw relationship between cytochrome c-caspase-3- and AIF-PARP1-mediated apoptosis, wherein PARP1 may be the fulcrum. In addition, macrophages were involved in regulating the hair cycle, and the rate of M1 macrophages around HFs increased during catagen, while more M2 macrophages were found during anagen and telogen. Our results indicate that intrinsic ROS drive HF cycle progression through DNA damage and repair, followed by apoptosis. Intrinsic ROS drive hair follicle cycle progression by modulating DNA damage and repair, and consecutively, hair follicle apoptosis and macrophage polarization work together to promote the hair follicle cycle.

35971123
Neural, adipocyte and hepatic differentiation potential of primary and secondary hair follicle stem cells isolated from Arbas Cashmere goats.
BACKGROUND: Arbas Cashmere goats are excellent domestic breeds with high yields of wool and cashmere. Their wool and cashmere can bring huge benefits to the livestock industry. Our studies intend to more fully understand the biological characteristics of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) in order to further explore the mechanisms of wool and cashmere regular regeneration. And they have been increasingly considered as promising multipotent cells in regenerative medicine because of their capacity to self-renew and differentiate. However, many aspects of the specific growth characteristics and differentiation ability of HFSCs remain unknown. This study aimed to further explore the growth characteristics and pluripotency of primary hair follicle stem cells (PHFSCs) and secondary hair follicle stem cells (SHFCs). RESULTS: We obtained PHFSCs and SHFSCs from Arbas Cashmere goats using combined isolation and purification methods. The proliferation and vitality of the two types of HFSCs, as well as the growth patterns, were examined. HFSC-specific markers and genes related to pluripotency, were subsequently identified. The PHFSCs and SHFSCs of Arbas Cashmere goat have a typical cobblestone morphology. Moreover, the PHFSCs and SHFSCs express HFSC surface markers, including CD34, K14, K15, K19 and LGR5. We also identified pluripotency-associated gene expression, including SOX2, OCT4 and SOX9, in PHFSCs and SHFSCs. Finally, PHFSCs and SHFSCs displayed multipotent abilities. PHFSCs and SHFSCs can be directed to differentiate into adipocyte-like, neural-like, and hepatocyte-like cells. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, this study confirmed that the biological characteristics and differentiation potential of PHFSCs and SHFSCs from Arbas Cashmere goats. These findings broaden and refine our knowledge of types and characteristics of adult stem cells.

27745629
Hair follicle-containing punch grafts accelerate chronic ulcer healing: A randomized controlled trial.
BACKGROUND: A prominent role of hair follicle-derived cells in epidermal wound closure is now well established but clinical translation of basic research findings is scarce. Although skin punch grafts have been used as a therapeutic intervention to improve healing of chronic leg ulcers, they are normally harvested from nonhairy areas, thus not taking advantage of the reported role of the hair follicle as a wound-healing promoter. OBJECTIVE: We sought to substantiate the role of hair follicles in venous leg ulcer healing by transplanting hair follicle-containing versus nonhairy punch grafts. METHODS: This was a randomized controlled trial with intraindividual comparison of hair follicle scalp grafts and nonhairy skin grafts transplanted in parallel into 2 halves of the same ulcer. RESULTS: Ulcer healing measured as the average percentage reduction 18 weeks postintervention was significantly increased (P = .002) in the hair follicle group with a 75.15% (SD 23.03) ulcer area reduction compared with 33.07% (SD 46.17) in the control group (nonhairy grafts). LIMITATIONS: Sample size was small (n = 12). CONCLUSION: Autologous transplantation of terminal hair follicles by scalp punch grafts induces better healing than punch grafts harvested from nonhairy areas. Hair punch grafting is a minimally invasive surgical procedure that appears to be effective as a therapeutic tool for chronic venous leg ulcers.

28049551
Beta-catenin can induce hair follicle stem cell differentiation into transit-amplifying cells through c-myc activation.
Hair follicle stem cells play important roles in maintaining homeostasis and skin tissue self-renewal. Transit-amplifying cells represent the transition of cells from hair follicle stem cells into differentiated epidermal cells. Thus far, the signaling pathway and the molecular biological mechanism that regulate the proliferation and differentiation of hair follicle stem cells remain unclear. In this paper, we studied the relationship between beta-catenin and c-myc during the process of the differentiation of hair follicle stem cells into transit-amplifying cells. Based on our results, the expression of beta-catenin can activate the nuclear gene c-myc and regulate the expression of transit-amplifying cell markers K15, K19, a6-integrin and beta1-integrin, indicating that beta-catenin is involved in the transformation process from hair follicle stem cells to transit-amplifying cells and suggesting that beta-catenin plays an important biological role in the induction of this differentiation process.

28117106
Stress-induced premature senescence of dermal papilla cells compromises hair follicle epithelial-mesenchymal interaction.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle is miniorgan constituted by keratinocytes and its distinctive mesenchyme of dermal papilla. Its aging is characterized by organ atrophy and impaired stem cell activation and differentiation. The contribution of dermal papilla to hair follicle aging change is not well understood. OBJECTIVE: This work was aimed at exploring the possible role of premature dermal papilla senescence in the pathogenesis of hair follicle aging. METHODS: Dermal papilla cells were challenged with H2O2 to induce premature senescence and the proliferation, apoptosis, gene expression and protein secretion were characterized. Its effect on epithelial-mesenchymal interaction was analyzed by co-culture in vitro and implantation of protein-coated beads in vivo. RESULT: Dermal papilla cells were more resistant to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis than dermal fibroblasts. The surviving dermal papilla cells showed signs of senescence but still preserved key dermal papilla signature gene expression. In addition to the failure to respond to mitogenic stimulation from keratinocytes, they lost the ability to induce hair follicle neogenesis, promoted interfollicular epidermal differentiation, inhibited follicular differentiation and, importantly, suppressed clonal growth of hair follicle stem cells. They produced higher levels of multiple inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6. Functionally, IL-6 inhibited clonal keratinocyte growth in vitro and blocked the transition from telogen to anagen in vivo. CONCLUSION: Stress-induced premature dermal papilla senescence can contribute to hair follicle aging change due to compromised epithelial-mesenchymal interaction.

28266743
The hair follicle enigma.
The hair follicle is a mini-organ endowed with a unique structure and cyclic behaviour. Despite the intense research efforts which have been devoted at deciphering the hair follicle biology over the past 70 years, one must admit that hair follicle remains an enigma. In this brief review, various aspects of hair follicle biology will be addressed, and more importantly, unsolved questions and new possible research tracks will be highlighted, including hair follicle glycobiology and exosome-mediated cell-cell interactions. Even though bricks of knowledge are solidly being acquired, an integrative picture remains to emerge. One can predict that computer science, algorithms and bioinformatics will assist in fostering our understanding hair biology.

29054756
A lncRNA-H19 transcript from secondary hair follicle of Liaoning cashmere goat: Identification, regulatory network and expression regulated potentially by its promoter methylation.
The H19 transcript (imprinted maternally expressed transcript) is well-known as long noncoding RNA (lncRNA), and it is thought to be associated with the inductive capacity of dermal papilla cells for hair-follicle reconstruction. In this study, we isolated and characterized a lncRNA-H19 transcript from the secondary hair follicle of Liaoning cashmere goat. Also, we investigated its transcriptional pattern and methylation status of H19 gene in secondary hair follicle of this breed during different stages of hair follicle cycle. Nucleotide composition analysis indicated that guanine (G) and cytosine (C) are the dominant nucleotides in the lncRNA-H19 transcript of Liaoning cashmere goat with the highest frequency distribution (11.25%) of GG nucleotide pair. The regulatory network showed that lncRNA-H19 transcript appears to have remarkably diverse regulatory relationships with its related miRNAs and the potential target genes. In secondary hair follicle, the relative expression of lncRNA-H19 transcript at the anagen phase is significantly higher than that at both telogen and catagen phases suggesting that lncRNA-H19 transcript might play essential roles in the formation and growth of cashmere fiber of goat. Methylation analysis indicated that the methylation of the promoter region of H19 gene most likely participates in its transcriptional suppression in secondary hair follicle of Liaoning cashmere goat.

29156398
Spontaneous hair follicle germ (HFG) formation in vitro, enabling the large-scale production of HFGs for regenerative medicine.
Hair follicle morphogenesis is triggered by reciprocal interactions between hair follicle germ (HFG) epithelial and mesenchymal layers. Here, we developed a method for large-scale preparation of HFGs in vitro via self-organization of cells. We mixed mouse epidermal and mouse/human mesenchymal cells in suspension and seeded them in microwells of a custom-designed array plate. Over a 3-day culture period, cells initially formed a randomly distributed single cell aggregate and then spatially separated from each other, exhibiting typical HFG morphological features. These self-sorted hair follicle germs (ssHFGs) were shown to be capable of efficient hair-follicle and shaft generation upon intracutaneous transplantation into the backs of nude mice. This finding facilitated the large-scale preparation of approximately 5000 ssHFGs in a microwell-array chip made of oxygen-permeable silicone. We demonstrated that the integrity of the oxygen supply through the bottom of the silicone chip was crucial to enabling both ssHFG formation and subsequent hair shaft generation. Finally, spatially aligned ssHFGs on the chip were encapsulated into a hydrogel and simultaneously transplanted into the back skin of nude mice to preserve their intervening spaces, resulting in spatially aligned hair follicle generation. This simple ssHFG preparation approach is a promising strategy for improving current hair-regenerative medicine techniques.

29159700
Expression and distribution patterns of spermine, spermidine, and putrescine in rat hair follicle.
No expression and distribution patterns of polyamines (PAs), spermine, spermidine, and their precursor putrescine in mammalian hair follicle are available, although polyamines are known to correlate well with hair growth and epidermal tumor genesis. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) using our original two monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) ASPM-29 specific for spermine or spermidine, and APUT-32 specific for putrescine allowed us to detect immunoreactivity for polyamines in hair follicles from normal adult rats. A wide range of immunoreactivity for the total spermine and spermidine was observed in the compartments of hair follicle: The highest degree of immunoreactivity for polyamines was observed in the matrix, in the Huxley's layer, in the deeper Henle's layer, and in the cuticle of the inner root sheath/the hair cuticle, while moderate immunoreactivity existed in the lower-to-mid cortex and the companion layer, followed by lower immunoreactivity in the outer root sheath, including the bulge region and in the deeper medulla, in which the immunoreactivity was also evident in their nuclei. In addition, somewhat surprisingly, with IHC by APUT-32 mAb, we detected significant levels of putrescine in the compartments, in which the immunostaining pattern was the closely similar to that of the total spermine and spermidine. Thus, among these compartments, the cell types of the matrix, the Huxley's layer, the deeper Henle's layer, and the cuticle of the inner root sheath/the hair cuticle seem to have the biologically higher potential in compartments of anagen hair follicle, maybe suggesting that they are involved more critically in the biological event of hair growth. In addition, we noted sharp differences of immunostaining by IHCs between ASPM-29 mAb and APUT-32 mAb in the epidermis cells and fibroblast. ASPM-29 mAb resulted in strong staining in both the cell types, but APUT-32 mAb showed only very light staining in both types. Consequently, the use of the two IHCs could be extremely useful in further studies on hair cycle and epidermal tumor genesis experimentally or clinically.

29298425
Hair Follicle Development in Mouse Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Skin Organoids.
The mammalian hair follicle arises during embryonic development from coordinated interactions between the epidermis and dermis. It is currently unclear how to recapitulate hair follicle induction in pluripotent stem cell cultures for use in basic research studies or in vitro drug testing. To date, generation of hair follicles in vitro has only been possible using primary cells isolated from embryonic skin, cultured alone or in a co-culture with stem cell-derived cells, combined with in vivo transplantation. Here, we describe the derivation of skin organoids, constituting epidermal and dermal layers, from a homogeneous population of mouse pluripotent stem cells in a 3D culture. We show that skin organoids spontaneously produce de novo hair follicles in a process that mimics normal embryonic hair folliculogenesis. This in vitro model of skin development will be useful for studying mechanisms of hair follicle induction, evaluating hair growth or inhibitory drugs, and modeling skin diseases.

29320989
Expression of Vimentin in hair follicle growth cycle of inner Mongolian Cashmere goats.
BACKGROUND: The growth of Inner Mongolian Cashmere goat skin hair follicle exhibits a periodic growth pattern. The hair growth cycle is distinguished as telogen, anagen, and catagen stages. The role of vimentin in the growth process of hair follicles is evident. To elucidate the mechanism underlying the vimentin activity in the growth cycle of hair follicles, transcriptome sequencing and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry were used to obtain the nucleic acid and amino acid sequences of VIIM gene and vimentin. The amino acid and nucleic acid sequences were analyzed by comparison. Real-time quantitative PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry analyzed the expression level and sites of vimentin in the three growth stages of the Inner Mongolia Cashmere goat skin samples. RESULTS: VIM gene cDNA, obtained by transcriptome sequencing, was aligned against that of the Capra hircus VIM gene. The amino acid sequence of vimentin revealed a high similarity rate across other species. The expressions of both VIM gene and vimentin were highest during the growth period and lowest in the rest period. Furthermore, vimentin was primarily expressed in the outer root sheath of the hair follicle as assessed by staining. CONCLUSIONS: The sequences of the gene and protein are similar to that of other species and identical to Capra hircus. However, the expression of VIM and vimentin was proportional to that of the growth of hair follicles. And vimentin expressed only in the outer root sheath of hair follicles. Thus, vimentin was speculated to participate in the regulation of the hair follicle growth cycle by affecting the outer root sheath.

29895193
Melatonin promotes Cashmere goat (Capra hircus) secondary hair follicle growth: a view from integrated analysis of long non-coding and coding RNAs.
The role of melatonin in promoting the yield of Cashmere goat wool has been demonstrated for decades though there remains a lack of knowledge regarding melatonin mediated hair follicle growth. Recent studies have demonstrated that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are widely transcribed in the genome and play ubiquitous roles in regulating biological processes. However, the role of lncRNAs in regulating melatonin mediated hair follicle growth remains unclear. In this study, we established an in vitro Cashmere goat secondary hair follicle culture system, and demonstrated that 500 ng/L melatonin exposure promoted hair follicle fiber growth. Based on long intergenic RNA sequencing, we demonstrated that melatonin promoted hair follicle elongation via regulating genes involved in focal adhesion and extracellular matrix receptor pathways and further cis predicting of lncRNAs targeted genes indicated that melatonin mediated lncRNAs mainly targeted vascular smooth muscle contraction and signaling pathways regulating the pluripotency of stem cells. We proposed that melatonin exposure not only perturbed key signals secreted from hair follicle stem cells to regulate hair follicle development, but also mediated lncRNAs mainly targeted to pathways involved in the microvascular system and extracellular matrix, which constitute the highly orchestrated microenvironment for hair follicle stem cell. Taken together, our findings here provide a profound view of lncRNAs in regulating Cashmere goat hair follicle circadian rhythms and broaden our knowledge on melatonin mediated hair follicle morphological changes.

29915875
Differential expression of miR-let7a in hair follicle cycle of Liaoning cashmere goats and identification of its targets.
In order to improve the production and quality of Chinese cashmere, the research of hair follicle development has aroused more and more attention; the regulation mechanism of miRNA in hair follicle development has become a hot spot. A survey of transcriptome profiling screened 10 hair follicle-related miRNAs that were differentially expressed, including miR-let7a. In this study, the expression of miR-let7a was lower in anagen of hair follicle of cashmere goats than that in catagen of hair follicle of cashmere goats (p < 0.01). Results were in accordance with transcriptome data. The expression patterns of miR-let7a target genes (IGF-1R, C-myc, and FGF5) were verified by qRT-PCR, which were consistent with the results of Western blot and showed a downward trend. The dual-luciferase reporter gene system was used to verify the correlation between the expression of miR-let7a and its target genes, and it showed that miR-let7a negatively correlates with C-myc and FGF5. Present study offers new information on miRNAs and their related target genes in the regulation of hair follicle development mechanism.

29923313
Establishment of an in vitro organoid model of dermal papilla of human hair follicle.
Human hair dermal papilla (DP) cells are specialized mesenchymal cells that play a pivotal role in hair regeneration and hair cycle activation. The current study aimed to first develop three-dimensional (3D) DP spheroids (DPS) with or without a silk-gelatin (SG) microenvironment, which showed enhanced DP-specific gene expression, resulting in enhanced extracellular matrix (ECM) production compared with a monolayer culture. We tested the feasibility of using this DPS model for drug screening by using minoxidil, which is a standard drug for androgenic alopecia. Minoxidil-treated DPS showed enhanced expression of growth factors and ECM proteins. Further, an attempt has been made to establish an in vitro 3D organoid model consisting of DPS encapsulated by SG hydrogel and hair follicle (HF) keratinocytes and stem cells. This HF organoid model showed the importance of structural features, cell-cell interaction, and hypoxia akin to in vivo HF. The study helped to elucidate the molecular mechanisms to stimulate cell proliferation, cell viability, and elevated expression of HF markers as well as epithelial-mesenchymal crosstalks, demonstrating high relevance to human HF biology. This simple in vitro DP organoid model system has the potential to provide significant insights into the underlying mechanisms of HF morphogenesis, distinct molecular signals relevant to different stages of the hair cycle, and hence can be used for controlled evaluation of the efficacy of new drug molecules.

30188763
Suppression of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling by EGF receptor is required for hair follicle development.
Mice that lack the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) fail to develop a hair coat, but the mechanism responsible for this deficit is not completely understood. Here, we show that EGFR plays a critical role to attenuate wingless-type MMTV integration site family member (Wnt)/beta-catenin signaling during postnatal hair follicle development. Genetic ablation of EGFR in mice resulted in increased mitotic activity in matrix cells, apoptosis in hair follicles, and impaired differentiation of epithelial lineages that form hair. EGFR is activated in wild-type hair follicle stem cells marked with SOX9 or NFATc1 and is essential to restrain proliferation and support stem cell numbers and their quiescence. We observed elevated levels of Wnt4, 6, 7b, 10a, 10b, and 16 transcripts and hyperactivation of the beta-catenin pathway in EGFR knockout follicles. Using primary keratinocytes, we linked ligand-induced EGFR activation to suppression of nascent mRNA synthesis of Wnt genes. Overexpression of the Wnt antagonist sFRP1 in mice lacking EGFR demonstrated that elevated Wnts are a major cause for the hair follicle defects. Colocalization of transforming growth factor alpha and Wnts regulated by EGFR in stem cells and progeny indicates that EGFR autocrine loops control Wnts. Our findings define a novel mechanism that integrates EGFR and Wnt/beta-catenin pathways to coordinate the delicate balance between proliferation and differentiation during development.

30196402
Identification and Characterization of Hair Follicle Stem Cells.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are epithelial cells that inhabit in the bulge region of hair follicles. They govern development of hair follicle as well as periodically regeneration of hair follicle. Under special condition, they also play roles in homeostasis of skin and other skin appendages. To characterize HFSCs in vitro, HFSCs must be isolated and cultured. In this chapter, we introduce a mechanical method to isolate HFSCs from mouse vibrissa hair follicle, and a modified method to culture isolated HFSCs. We also describe methods to characterize HFSCs, including clone formation assay and chamber graft assay.

30252548
A comparative study between suction blistering graft, mini punch graft, and hair follicle transplant in treatment of patients with stable vitiligo.
Background: Vitiligo is an acquired disfiguring common depigmented skin disease. Objectives: This study aimed to compare the clinical efficacy and safety of suction blistering graft, mini punch and hair follicle techniques in treatment of patients with stable vitiligo. Methods: Thirty patients with stable vitiligo were included. Patients were divided into 3 groups, in group (A) 10 patient underwent suction blistering technique, in group (B) 10 patients underwent mini punch technique and in group (C) 10 patients underwent hair follicle technique. Then all patients in the three techniques were subjected to narrow-band ultraviolet B (NB-UVB) phototherapy for 3 months. All patients were assessed by determining the percentage of repigmentation and Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) before and 3 months after the operation. Results: The percentage of repigmentation of vitiligo in suction blister technique was significantly higher than both mini punch and hair follicle techniques (p value .001 and .0001 respectively). There was a statistically significant difference between the three techniques regarding DLQI score after operation (p value = .0001). Conclusion: This study concluded that suction blistering technique is more effective and safe than mini punch technique and hair follicle technique in treatment of stable vitiligo.

30355452
Hair follicle epidermal stem cells define a niche for tactile sensation.
The heterogeneity and compartmentalization of stem cells is a common principle in many epithelia, and is known to function in epithelial maintenance, but its other physiological roles remain elusive. Here we show transcriptional and anatomical contributions of compartmentalized epidermal stem cells in tactile sensory unit formation in the mouse hair follicle. Epidermal stem cells in the follicle upper-bulge, where mechanosensory lanceolate complexes innervate, express a unique set of extracellular matrix (ECM) and neurogenesis-related genes. These epidermal stem cells deposit an ECM protein called EGFL6 into the collar matrix, a novel ECM that tightly ensheathes lanceolate complexes. EGFL6 is required for the proper patterning, touch responses, and alphav integrin-enrichment of lanceolate complexes. By maintaining a quiescent original epidermal stem cell niche, the old bulge, epidermal stem cells provide anatomically stable follicle-lanceolate complex interfaces, irrespective of the stage of follicle regeneration cycle. Thus, compartmentalized epidermal stem cells provide a niche linking the hair follicle and the nervous system throughout the hair cycle.

30483790
Dynamic Nestin expression during hair follicle maturation and the normal hair cycle.
Nestin, a type-VI intermediate filament protein, serves as a marker for neural stem cells, and is also known to be expressed in follicle stem cells. Hair follicles go through repeated cycles of anagen (growth), catagen (regression) and telogen (quiescence) throughout the life of mammals following morphogenesis. In the present study it was demonstrated that in mice, the maturation of hair follicles includes the period between morphogenesis and the first anagen (4 weeks of age). Skin samples from Nestin-green fluorescent protein (GFP)+ mice at different hair follicle stages were collected, and immunostaining for Nestin and Ki67 was performed. It was identified that during morphogenesis, Nestin-GFP expression was rarely detected and it gradually increased during maturation (0-4 weeks) in hair follicle dermal cells. In mature hair follicle dermal cells, Nestin and the proliferation marker Ki67 were highly expressed in anagen, while during telogen, they were markedly decreased. Additionally, lineage tracing data demonstrated that peri-follicular Nestin+ cells during morphogenesis differentiated into cluster of differentiation 31+ cells.

30523246
A novel and safe small molecule enhances hair follicle regeneration by facilitating metabolic reprogramming.
Targeting hair follicle regeneration has been investigated for the treatment of hair loss, and fundamental studies investigating stem cells and their niche have been described. However, knowledge of stem cell metabolism and the specific regulation of bioenergetics during the hair regeneration process is currently insufficient. Here, we report the hair regrowth-promoting effect of a newly synthesized novel small molecule, IM176OUT05 (IM), which activates stem cell metabolism. IM facilitated stemness induction and maintenance during an induced pluripotent stem cell generation process. IM treatment mildly inhibited mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and concurrently increased glycolysis, which accelerated stemness induction during the early phase of reprogramming. More importantly, the topical application of IM accelerated hair follicle regeneration by stimulating the progression of the hair follicle cycle to the anagen phase and increased the hair follicle number in mice. Furthermore, the stem cell population with a glycolytic metabotype appeared slightly earlier in the IM-treated mice. Stem cell and niche signaling involved in the hair regeneration process was also activated by the IM treatment during the early phase of hair follicle regeneration. Overall, these results show that the novel small molecule IM promotes tissue regeneration, specifically in hair regrowth, by restructuring the metabolic configuration of stem cells.

30632192
Differential expression of phospho-S6 in hair follicle tumors: Evidence of mammalian target of rapamycin pathway activation.
BACKGROUND: The role of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) in hair follicle tumorigenesis is unclear. mTOR controls cell growth and can be activated through ribosomal S6 kinase. Herein, we sought to evaluate the expression of phospho-S6 in six different benign and malignant follicular tumor types. METHODS: 76 cases were selected (17 fibrofolliculomas, 20 trichoepitheliomas, 10 tricholemmomas, 19 pilomatricomas, 1 malignant proliferating tricholemmal tumor, 8 tricholemmal carcinomas, and 1 trichoblastic carcinoma) and collected over 16 years. Immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibody for phospho-S6 was performed and analyzed semi-quantitatively; statistical analysis using the chi2 test was performed, with P < 0.05 considered significant. RESULTS: All malignant neoplasms in our series (8/8 [100%] cases of tricholemmal carcinoma, 1/1 [100%] trichoblastic carcinoma, and 1/1 [100%] malignant proliferating tricholemmal tumor) showed a strong and diffuse pattern of staining for phospho-S6 involving 70% to 90% of tumor cells. By contrast, a minority of benign tumors were positive for phospho-S6 and most stained in a patchy pattern including 12/17 (71%) fibrofolliculomas, 9/20 (45%) trichoepitheliomas and 1/10 (10%) tricholemmomas, involving 30% to 50%, 5% to 20%, and 40% to 50% of tumor cells, respectively. Most pilomatricomas (17/19 [89%]) exhibited a stronger, but distinctive staining pattern, staining mostly the basaloid cells with a multifocal distribution, involving 70% to 90% of tumor cells. CONCLUSIONS: Phospho-S6 is differentially expressed among benign and malignant hair follicle tumors (P = 0.0044). While malignant tumors show diffuse expression, only a small subset of benign neoplasms were positive, primarily in a patchy distribution.

30664259
Anagen hair follicle repair: Timely regenerative attempts from plastic extra-bulge epithelial cells.
Anagen hair follicle repair (AHFR) is the regenerative scheme activated to restore the structure and hair growth following injuries to anagen hair follicles. Compared with telogen-to-anagen regeneration and hair follicle neogenesis, AHFR is a clinically important, yet relatively unexplored regenerative feature of hair follicles. Due to their highly proliferative character, germinative cells and matrix cells within hair bulbs are highly susceptible to injuries, such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Clinical and experimental observations suggest that damaged anagen hair follicles are able to repair themselves to resume anagen growth, bypassing premature catagen/telogen entry. Mechanistically, extra-bulge epithelial cells in the outer root sheath and the lower proximal cup are quickly mobilized for regeneration. These cells acquire stem cell-like properties, exhibiting high plasticity by breaking lineage restriction to regenerate all cell types in the lower segment of anagen hair follicles. Facilitating extra-bulge epithelial cells' mobilization ameliorates hair loss from chemo- and radiotherapy. On the other hand, quiescent bulge stem cells can also be activated, but only after more severe injuries and with slower activation dynamics. They show limited plasticity and regenerate part of the outer root sheath only. The dysrhythmic activation might render bulge stem cells susceptible to concomitant injuries due to their exit from quiescence.

30681746
Self-organizing hair peg-like structures from dissociated skin progenitor cells: New insights for human hair follicle organoid engineering and Turing patterning in an asymmetric morphogenetic field.
Human skin progenitor cells will form new hair follicles, although at a low efficiency, when injected into nude mouse skin. To better study and improve upon this regenerative process, we developed an in vitro system to analyse the morphogenetic cell behaviour in detail and modulate physical-chemical parameters to more effectively generate hair primordia. In this three-dimensional culture, dissociated human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes self-assembled into a planar epidermal layer while fetal scalp dermal cells coalesced into stripes, then large clusters, and finally small clusters resembling dermal condensations. At sites of dermal clustering, subjacent epidermal cells protruded to form hair peg-like structures, molecularly resembling hair pegs within the sequence of follicular development. The hair peg-like structures emerged in a coordinated, formative wave, moving from periphery to centre, suggesting that the droplet culture constitutes a microcosm with an asymmetric morphogenetic field. In vivo, hair follicle populations also form in a progressive wave, implying the summation of local periodic patterning events with an asymmetric global influence. To further understand this global patterning process, we developed a mathematical simulation using Turing activator-inhibitor principles in an asymmetric morphogenetic field. Together, our culture system provides a suitable platform to (a) analyse the self-assembly behaviour of hair progenitor cells into periodically arranged hair primordia and (b) identify parameters that impact the formation of hair primordia in an asymmetric morphogenetic field. This understanding will enhance our future ability to successfully engineer human hair follicle organoids.

30825596
Hair follicle stem cells isolated from newborn Yangtze River Delta White Goats.
Adult stem cells are self-renewing populations that originate from embryonic progenitor cells during organogenesis and retain multipotency to support tissue and organ regeneration throughout the lifetime of an organism. The hair follicle (HF) is a small organ that is ideal for studying the biology and regulation of adult stem cells. A distinct, permanent pool of adult stem cells is located in the HF bulge region. Most methods used to isolate hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) begin with mouse or human follicles. Here, we describe two methods of isolating HFSCs from newborn Yangtze River Delta White Goats. A suitable method was found. The cell viability and expression of HFSC marker proteins differed in the two methods. CD49f-positive (integrin alpha 6) HFSCs were sorted by fluorescence activated flow cytometry. Sorted HFSCs can be used in various in vivo grafting models and are useful as an in vitro model to study multipotency, quiescence and activation.

30893588
Treg-Cell Control of a CXCL5-IL-17 Inflammatory Axis Promotes Hair-Follicle-Stem-Cell Differentiation During Skin-Barrier Repair.
Restoration of barrier-tissue integrity after injury is dependent on the function of immune cells and stem cells (SCs) residing in the tissue. In response to skin injury, hair-follicle stem cells (HFSCs), normally poised for hair generation, are recruited to the site of injury and differentiate into cells that repair damaged epithelium. We used a SC fate-mapping approach to examine the contribution of regulatory T (Treg) cells to epidermal-barrier repair after injury. Depletion of Treg cells impaired skin-barrier regeneration and was associated with a Th17 inflammatory response and failed HFSC differentiation. In this setting, damaged epithelial cells preferentially expressed the neutrophil chemoattractant CXCL5, and blockade of CXCL5 or neutrophil depletion restored barrier function and SC differentiation after epidermal injury. Thus, Treg-cell regulation of localized inflammation enables HFSC differentiation and, thereby, skin-barrier regeneration, with implications for the maintenance and repair of other barrier tissues.

30919474
Injury modifies the fate of hair follicle dermal stem cell progeny in a hair cycle-dependent manner.
The dermal papilla (DP) is one of two principal mesenchymal compartments of the hair follicle (HF). We previously reported that a population of HF dermal stem cells (hfDSCs) function to regenerate the dermal sheath (DS), but intriguingly also contribute new cells to the adult DP at the onset of anagen hair growth to maintain normal cycling of HFs and support the production of large hair fibres. Here, we asked whether injury altered the behaviour of hfDSCs and their progeny in order to support wound-induced hair growth (WIHG) and if the response was modulated by hair cycle stage. alphaSMACreERT 2 :ROSAYFP mice received tamoxifen to label the DS, including hfDSCs. Full-thickness excisions were made on the dorsal skin during various stages of the hair cycle. The skin was harvested at the subsequent anagen. Interestingly, there was an increase in the magnitude of recruitment of hfDSC progeny into the DP after injury compared to follicles entering natural second anagen. This bias towards a DP fate only occurred when a wound was induced during certain stages of the HC. In summary, injury modifies the fate of hfDSCs progeny, biasing them towards recruitment into the DP, with the hair cycle stage also influencing this response.

30974503
The role of the microbiome in scalp hair follicle biology and disease.
The skin surface microbiome and its role in skin diseases have received increasing attention over the past years. Beyond, there is evidence for a continuous exchange with the cutaneous immune system in healthy skin, where hair follicles (HFs) provide unique anatomical niches. Especially, scalp HFs form large tubular invaginations, which extend deeply into the skin and harbour a variety of microorganisms. The distinct immunology of HFs with enhanced immune cell trafficking in superficial compartments in juxtaposition to immune-privileged sites crucial for hair follicle cycling and regeneration makes this organ a highly susceptible structure. Depending on composition and penetration depth, microbiota may cause typical infections, but may also contribute to pro-inflammatory environment in chronic inflammatory scalp diseases. Involvement in hair cycle regulation and immune cell maturation has been postulated. Herein, we review recent insights in hair follicle microbiome, immunology and penetration research and discuss clinical implications for scalp health and disease.

31152005
Pharmacological Activation of Thermo-Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 3 Channels Inhibits Hair Growth by Inducing Cell Death of Hair Follicle Outer Root Sheath.
Hair growth starts from hair follicles that reside in dermis, and abnormal hair growth is an early sign of hair follicle disease or systemic illness such as alopecia or hair loss. Therefore, identifying a target critical for dysfunctional hair follicles is fundamental to alleviating dermatologic or systemic diseases with hair abnormalities. The warm temperature-activated Ca2+-permeable transient receptor potential vanilloid 3 (TRPV3) channel protein is abundantly expressed in the skin keratinocytes, and dysfunctional TRPV3 causes human congenital Olmsted syndrome, characterized by skin diseases and alopecia, indicating an important role for TRPV3 in hair follicle development and hair growth. To validate TRPV3 as a therapeutic target, we investigated the impact of pharmacological modulation of TRPV3 on hair growth using a combination of biochemical and cell biology, immunohistochemical, whole-cell patch clamp, RNA interference, and pharmacological approaches. We found that functional TRPV3 channel proteins are highly expressed in hair follicle outer root sheath (ORS) cells as detected by Western blot analysis, immunohistochemical staining, and electrophysiological techniques. Pharmacological activation of TRPV3 by agonist natural carvacrol induces cell death of ORS cells, and topical application of carvacrol to mouse dorsal skin also inhibits hair growth. Conversely, specific inhibition of TRPV3 by inhibitor natural forsythoside B and short-hairpin RNA reverses the cell death induced by carvacrol-mediated TRPV3 activation in human ORS cells. Furthermore, forsythoside B results in a significant reversal of hair growth inhibition induced by agonist carvacrol. Altogether, our findings demonstrate that TRPV3 channel is critical for regulation of hair growth, and inhibition of TRPV3 may represent a promising therapy for hair loss or hair follicle-related skin diseases.

31221480
Wnt activator CHIR99021-stimulated human dermal papilla spheroids contribute to hair follicle formation and production of reconstituted follicle-enriched human skin.
"The aim of the present study was to accomplish de novo generation of reconstituted human skin with enriched hair follicles. Dermal papillae (DP) are known to play a crucial organizing role in hair follicle induction. However, generation of enriched human hair follicles using cultured DP cells has not been accomplished because DP cells easily lose their hair-inducing ability with culturing. To enhance the hair-inducing ability of DP cells, Wnt signaling pathway activation or three-dimensional (3D) spheroid culture methods were employed in previous studies. Herein, we assessed effects of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling activator CHIR99021 and found that it enhanced the expression of DP signature genes associated with hair-inducing ability. Further comparison of three different 3D culture methods revealed the highest expression of DP signature genes in spheroids generated by a floating drop method compared with other methods. CHIR99021 synergistically increased expression of DP signature genes in combination with floating drop culture. Reconstituted skin assay prepared using the most promising CHIR99021-stimulated 3D spheroids showed enrichment for human hair follicles. Labeled DP spheroids and derived cells were primarily found to be DP and dermal sheath cup (DSC) cells, implying organization of hair formation by DP spheroids. Finally, to evaluate the functional features of generated human skin and hair follicles, we injected human DSC cells, which reportedly show DP precursor behavior, and exhibit hair-inducing ability through incorporation into hair follicles, into mice. Histological studies revealed injected DSC cells in dermal sheath of hair follicles, consistent with a previous report, thus verifying the functionality of generated skin and hair follicles. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that DP spheroids synergistically stimulated by CHIR99021 and 3D culture contributed to hair follicle formation, thus making it possible to generate reconstituted hair follicle-enriched human skin with functional features."

31249324
Hair-follicle-associated pluripotent stem cells derived from cryopreserved intact human hair follicles sustain multilineage differentiation potential.
The bulge area of the hair follicle contains hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells. Here, we present effective cryopreservation procedures of the human hair follicle that preserve the differentiation potential of HAP stem cells. Whole hair follicles isolated from human scalp were cryopreserved by a slow-rate cooling medium and stored in liquid nitrogen. A careful thawing method was used to collect the upper parts of the human hair follicles which were cultured for four weeks in a Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium with fetal bovine serum (FBS). Proliferating hair follicle cells were then shifted to DMEM/Ham's Nutrient Mixture F-12 medium without FBS and allowed to grow for one week. These proliferating cells were able to produce HAP stem cell colonies with multilineage differentiation capacity. They produced keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells, neurons and glial cells. Interestingly, these cryopreserved hair follicles produced pluripotent HAP stem cell colonies similar to fresh follicles. These findings suggest that the cryopreserved whole human hair follicle preserves the ability to produce HAP stem cells, which will enable any individual to preserve a bank of these stem cells for personalized regenerative medicine.

31260136
Cholesterol homeostasis: Links to hair follicle biology and hair disorders.
Lipids and lipid metabolism are critical factors in hair follicle (HF) biology, and cholesterol has long been suspected of influencing hair growth. Altered cholesterol homeostasis is involved in the pathogenesis of primary cicatricial alopecia, mutations in a cholesterol transporter are associated with congenital hypertrichosis, and dyslipidaemia has been linked to androgenic alopecia. The underlying molecular mechanisms by which cholesterol influences pathways involved in proliferation and differentiation within HF cell populations remain largely unknown. As such, expanding our knowledge of the role for cholesterol in regulating these processes is likely to provide new leads in the development of treatments for disorders of hair growth and cycling. This review describes the current state of knowledge with respect to cholesterol homeostasis in the HF along with known and putative links to hair pathologies.

31343406
Skin vasculature and hair follicle cross-talking associated with stem cell activation and tissue homeostasis.
Skin vasculature cross-talking with hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) is poorly understood. Skin vasculature undergoes dramatic remodeling during adult mouse hair cycle. Specifically, a horizontal plexus under the secondary hair germ (HPuHG) transiently neighbors the HFSC activation zone during the quiescence phase (telogen). Increased density of HPuHG can be induced by reciprocal mutations in the epithelium (Runx1) and endothelium (Alk1) in adult mice, and is accompanied by prolonged HFSC quiescence and by delayed entry and progression into the hair growth phase (anagen). Suggestively, skin vasculature produces BMP4, a well-established HFSC quiescence-inducing factor, thus contributing to a proliferation-inhibitory environment near the HFSC. Conversely, the HFSC activator Runx1 regulates secreted proteins with previously demonstrated roles in vasculature remodeling. We suggest a working model in which coordinated remodeling and molecular cross-talking of the adult epithelial and endothelial skin compartments modulate timing of HFSC activation from quiescence for proper tissue homeostasis of adult skin.

31413209
[Expression pattern of mTOR subunits Raptor and Rictor in mouse hair follicle cycle].
OBJECTIVE: To detemine the expression pattern of mTOR complex subunits Raptor and Rictor in the hair follicles of mice at different hair follicle stages, and to explore its significance.  :  Methods: Immunostaining of Ki-67, a proliferative marker, was used to determine the precise hair follicle stages of mouse dorsal skin at different postnatal time points. Real-time PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression of Raptor and Rictor in mouse dorsal skin at 43 days after birth (P43, early telogen), 56 days after birth (P56, mid-telogen), 69 days after birth (P69, late telogen) and 74 days after birth (P74, early anagen). The expression intensity and localization of Raptor and Rictor at different stages of hair cycle were tested by co-immumostaining. :  Results: Ki-67 immunostaining showed that the time points (P43, P56, P69, P74) and hair follicle stages (early telogen, mid-telogen, late telogen, early anagen) of the dorsal skin were consistent with each other. The results of real-time PCR and immunostaining were consistent, showing that the expression of Raptor and Rictor did not changed in the early-, mid-, late telogen, and early anagen. However, Raptor was specifically expressed in the bulge where hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are residing in, and Rictor was mainly detected in inner root sheath (IRS) cells.  :  Conclusion: The expression of Raptor and Rictor does not altered in the hair follicles at different hair follicle stages, but Raptor and Rictor are specifically expressed in the HFSCs and IRS cells, respectively, indicating that Raptor might be a molecular marker for HFSCs, and Rictor might be involved in the maintenance of IRS and formation of hair shaft.

31475747
Lymphatic vessels interact dynamically with the hair follicle stem cell niche during skin regeneration in vivo.
Lymphatic vessels are essential for skin fluid homeostasis and immune cell trafficking. Whether the lymphatic vasculature is associated with hair follicle regeneration is, however, unknown. Here, using steady and live imaging approaches in mouse skin, we show that lymphatic vessels distribute to the anterior permanent region of individual hair follicles, starting from development through all cycle stages and interconnecting neighboring follicles at the bulge level, in a stem cell-dependent manner. Lymphatic vessels further connect hair follicles in triads and dynamically flow across the skin. At the onset of the physiological stem cell activation, or upon pharmacological or genetic induction of hair follicle growth, lymphatic vessels transiently expand their caliber suggesting an increased tissue drainage capacity. Interestingly, the physiological caliber increase is associated with a distinct gene expression correlated with lymphatic vessel reorganization. Using mouse genetics, we show that lymphatic vessel depletion blocks hair follicle growth. Our findings point toward the lymphatic vasculature being important for hair follicle development, cycling, and organization, and define lymphatic vessels as stem cell niche components, coordinating connections at tissue-level, thus provide insight into their functional contribution to skin regeneration.

31494092
CD49fhigh Defines a Distinct Skin Mesenchymal Stem Cell Population Capable of Hair Follicle Epithelial Cell Maintenance.
The dermis harbors distinct mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) populations, which play equally important roles as epidermal stem cells in skin homeostasis and regeneration. However, to reliably identify and directly isolate the in vivo counterpart of these cells is still challenging. Using the epidermal stem cell marker CD49f, we defined a CD49fhigh distinct mesenchymal subpopulation in the dermis. In vitro and in vivo differentiation assays, and transcriptome analysis demonstrated that CD49fhigh cells possess neural crest-like cell characteristics. Our results showed that the formation of hair follicle-like budding structure and the expressions of key genes regulating hair follicle development were induced when hair follicle epithelial cells were co-cultured with CD49fhigh cells. We also found that CD49fhigh cells activated Notch signaling in co-cultured hair follicle epithelial cells, whereas the inhibition of Notch signaling resulted in epidermal cyst-like spheres and loss of maintenance of hair follicle epithelial cell characteristics. Furthermore, we identified Itga7 and CD49f as an efficient biomarker panel for direct selection of CD49fhigh skin MSCs. Our results lead to a deeper understanding of heterogeneity and the function of MSCs in the skin and may facilitate potential translational applications of these cells.

31655924
Recombinant human Cyclophilin A stimulates hair follicle cells via Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.
OBJECTIVES: To explore potential effects of recombinant peptidyl-prolyl isomerase human Cyclophilin A (CypA) in the growth of mouse hair and human hair follicle dermal papilla cells (HDP). RESULTS: The hair growth of 8-weeks C57BL/6 mouse was significantly stimulated by recombinant human CypA protein. CypA also promoted Human Dermal Papilla (HDP) cell growth and induced beta-catenin protein through GSK3beta inhibition. CONCLUSIONS: The molecular chaperone CypA stimulates hair follicle and HDP cells through Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, suggesting that it might be a key molecule for hair loss disorder therapy.

31751154
A mutation in MAP2 is associated with prenatal hair follicle density.
Hairlessness is usually a rare trait in pigs; however, in this study, we found hairless (HR) pigs at a relatively high frequency in 1 pig herd. We observed that, the lower hair shaft density of HR pigs could be mainly attributed to the lower hair follicle density, and during the embryonic period, d 39-45 were a critical stage for the formation of the hair follicle. In this regard, d 41 during gestation was a particularly important point. Hair follicle morphogenesis occurring at an early stage of embryo development is similar to humans and mice. Further analyses of association studies based on single-nucleotide polymorphism chip as well as sequence data, mRNA sequencing, immunohistochemistry, and comparative genomics demonstrated that microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) is a key gene responsible for hair follicle density and 1 missense mutation of A-to-G at rs328005415 in MAP2, causing a valine-to-methionine substitution leads to the HR phenotype. Considering the high homology between pigs and humans, our research has some significance for the study of the mechanisms of skin development, hair morphogenesis, and hair loss in humans by showing that the pig may be a more appropriate model in which to study these processes.-Jiang, Y., Jiang, Y., Zhang, H., Mei, M., Song, H., Ma, X., Jiang, L., Yu, Z., Zhang, Q., Ding, X. A mutation in MAP2 is associated with prenatal hair follicle density.

31769892
PPAR-gamma signalling as a key mediator of human hair follicle physiology and pathology.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are abundantly expressed in human skin, with PPAR-gamma being the most intensively investigated isoform. In various ex vivo and in vivo models, PPAR-gamma-mediated signalling has recently surfaced as an essential element of hair follicle (HF) development, growth and stem cell biology. Moreover, the availability of novel, topically applicable PPAR-gamma modulators with a favourable toxicological profile has extended the range of potential applications in clinical dermatology. In this review, we synthesize where this field currently stands and sketch promising future research avenues, focussing on the role of PPAR-gamma-mediated signalling in the biology and pathology of human scalp HFs, with special emphasis on scarring alopecias such as lichen planopilaris and frontal fibrosing alopecia as model human epithelial stem cell diseases. In particular, we discuss whether and how pharmacological modulation of PPAR-gamma signalling may be employed for the management of hair growth disorders, for example, in scarring alopecia (by reducing HF inflammation as well as by promoting the survival and suppressing pathological epithelial-mesenchymal transition of keratin 15 + epithelial stem cells in the bulge) and in hirsutism/hypertrichosis (by promoting catagen development). Moreover, we explore the potential role of PPAR-gamma in androgenetic alopecia, HF energy metabolism and HF ageing, and consider clinical perspectives that emanate from the limited data available on this so far. As this field of translational human hair research is still in its infancy, many open questions exist, for which we briefly delineate selected experimental approaches that promise to generate instructive answers in the near future.

31898370
Evaluation of hair follicle parameters using TrichoScale Pro  in healthy dogs: a pilot study.
BACKGROUND: Trichoscopy, in combination with image analysis software, is a readily available, efficient diagnostic tool for assessing hair follicle parameters of people in vivo. Systems designed for use in human dermatology must be evaluated and validated with animal skin/hair before they can be used for veterinary applications. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the use of a commercial software package for image analysis of canine hair follicles and to define hair follicle parameters. ANIMALS: Thirteen client-owned healthy dogs. METHODS: Trichoscopic images at x20 magnification were obtained from three shaved body sites (left dorsal head, left thorax, left flank) over a five day period, then analyzed by the software. RESULTS: The image analysis software was able to identify microscopic changes in hair length on a daily basis, calculating a mean hair growth rate of 0.065 mm/day. Each of the three body sites had consistent hair growth rates across all days. Anagen and telogen percentages were consistent at each body site by Day 2 (48 h post-clipping). Data for mean hair thickness, and primary and secondary hair percentages also are reported. CONCLUSIONS: Although it provides less useful data for canine hair coats than for human scalp hair, the system evaluated provides an easy, noninvasive, rapid means for assessing several important canine hair follicle parameters: daily hair growth rates, anagen and telogen percentages, primary and secondary hair percentages, and mean hair thickness. This diagnostic tool could serve to establish breed-specific hair coat standards, evaluating hair follicle changes in various canine alopecic conditions and monitoring coat-promoting treatments in dogs.

31998943
Physiological response, function of sweat glands, and hair follicle cycling in cattle in response to fescue toxicosis and hair genotype.
Fescue toxicosis is a syndrome that results when cattle consume toxic endophyte-infected tall fescue. The objective of this study was to compare the response in physiological variables, sweat gland function, hair follicle cycling, and gene expression to feeding a total mixed ration that included tall fescue haylage and tall fescue seed containing a toxic endophyte (EI) or tall fescue haylage containing a nontoxic novel endophyte (EN) in beef heifers (Angus x Senepol heifers, n = 31) with 2 different hair genotypes. Numbers in each subgroup were as follows: novel endophyte, heterozygous slick (EN-S; n = 8), novel endophyte, homozygous hairy (wild type, EN-W; n = 7), endophyte-infected, heterozygous slick (EI-S; n = 10), and endophyte-infected, homozygous hairy (wild type, EI-W; n = 6). Physiological measurements were taken weekly for 7 wk. Data were analyzed using the MIXED procedure of SAS including dietary fescue treatment (EN vs. EI) and hair genotype (S vs. W) as main effects, day as a repeated measure, and temperature-humidity index (THI) as a covariate. Skin biopsies were taken before treatment initiation and on day 37 of treatment. Average surface temperature (ST) increased as the THI increased (P < 0.0001). Average ST was greater (P < 0.01) for animals fed EI than for animals fed the EN fescue diet, and greater (P < 0.01) for animals with the W genotype compared with animals with the S genotype. The difference between heifers with the S and W genotype was greater at greater THI (genotype x day interaction, P < 0.01). Transepidermal water loss (TEWL) was greater (P < 0.05) for animals with the S genotype compared with the W genotype and greater (P < 0.05) for heifers with the S genotype than for heifers with the W genotype when fed EI (36.7, 38.5, 30.0, and 38.7 g/m2 per hour for EN-W, EN-S, EI-W, and EI-S, respectively). The fraction of follicles in telogen in plucked hair samples for heifers fed EI was greater for animals with the S genotype than the W genotype (fraction in telogen: 0.456, 0.565, 0.297, 0.702 for EN-W, EN-S, EI-W, and EI-S, respectively; diet x genotype interaction, P < 0.05). Fraction of follicles in anagen was the opposite. EI fescue resulted in increased ST, changes in hair follicle cycling that support greater hair growth, and decreased TEWL for heifers with the W genotype compared with S genotype, suggesting greater heat stress in response to EI.

32002839
Pigmentation Effect of Rice Bran Extract in Hair Follicle-Like Tissue and Organ Culture Models.
BACKGROUND: Melanogenesis is a biological process resulting in the production of melanin pigment, which plays an important role in the prevention of sun-induced skin injury and determines the hair and skin color. Melanin has the ability to block ultraviolet radiation and scavenge free oxygen radicals, thus protecting the skin from their harmful effects. Agents that increase melanin synthesis in melanocytes may reduce the risk of photodamage and skin cancer. Hence, various approaches have been proposed to increase the synthesis of melanin. METHODS: The current study aimed to develop a three-dimensional hair follicle-like tissue (HFLT) model with human dermal papilla, melanocytes, and outer root sheaths cells. This model showed enhanced melanogenesis-related protein expression after rice bran ash extract (RBE) treatment. Next, we investigated the melanogenic effect of RBE in the HFLT and compared the results to those of hair follicle (HF) organ culture model. RESULTS: RBE was found to significantly increase the expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor, a key transcription factor involved in melanin production, in both HFLT and organ culture models. Results showed that melanogenesis-related protein expression levels were higher in the RBE group compared to those in the control group. Similar results were obtained by immunohistochemistry. CONCLUSION: Our data suggested that RBE promotes melanin biosynthesis. Taken together, this simple in vitro HFLT model system has the potential to provide significant insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms of HF melanogenesis, and hence can be used for controlled evaluation of the efficacy of new materials for melanogenesis.

32016616
Hair follicle stem cells differentiation into bone cells on collagen scaffold.
The hair follicle is a dynamic structure which contains different niches for stem cells, therefore; it has been considered as valuable and rich sources of stem cells, due to easy access, multipotency and non-oncogenic properties. In the present study, the differentiation capacities of hair follicle stem cells into bone cells on the natural collagen scaffolds were investigated. The stem cells were extracted from the hair follicle bulge area of male Wistar rats' whisker and cultured until 3rd passage, then osteogenic differentiations were induced by culturing the cells in the specific osteogenic medium. After 3 weeks, the differentiation parameters, including morphological changes, levels of calcification and expression of the bone specific genes were detected. The hydrogel preparation and scaffold fabrication was carried out using the extracted collagen and was studied by scanning electron microscope. Comparison of the stem cells' growth and changes on the scaffold and non-scaffold conditions showed that, in the both situation, the cells revealed differentiation signs of osteocytes, including large and cubic morphology with a star-shaped nucleus. Staining by Alizarin-red and Von-Kossa methods showed the presence of red and black calcium mass on the scaffold. Expression of the osteopontin and alkaline phosphatase genes confirmed the differentiation. Considerable porosity in the surface of the scaffold was recorded by scanning electron microscopy, which made it convenient for cells' attachment and growth. The data showed that the bulge stem cells possess significant capacity for osteoblastic differentiation and collagen scaffolds were found to be an appropriate matrix for growth and differentiation of the cell.

32121148
Assessment of Prolonged Dengue Virus Infection in Dermal Fibroblasts and Hair-Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells.
Dengue virus (DENV)-mediated hair loss is one of the post-dengue fatigue syndromes and its pathophysiology remains unknown. Whether long-term or persistent infection with DENV in the scalp results in hair loss is unclear. In this study, we cultured human dermal fibroblasts (WS1 cells) and primary human hair-follicle dermal papilla cells (HFDPCs) in the long term with DENV-2 infection. The production of virion, the expression of inflammatory and anti-virus genes, and their signaling transduction activity in the infected cells were analyzed. DENV-2 NS3 protein and DENV-2 5' UTR RNA were detected in fibroblasts and HFDPCs that were subjected to long-term infection with DENV-2 for 33 days. A significant amount of DENV-2 virion was produced by both WS1 cells and HFDPCs in the first two days of acute infection. The virion was also detected in WS1 cells that were infected in the long term, but HFDPCs failed to produce DENV-2 after long-term culture. Type I and type III interferons, and inflammatory cytokines were highly expressed in the acute phase of DENV infection in HFPDC and WS1 cells. However, in the long-term cultured cells, modest levels of anti-viral protein genes were expressed and we observed reduced signaling activity, which was correlated with the level of virus production changes. Long-term infection of DENV-2 downregulated the expression of hair growth regulatory factors, such as Rip1, Wnt1, and Wnt4. This in vitro study shows that the long-term infection with DENV-2 in dermal fibroblasts and dermal papilla cells may be involved with the prolonged-DENV-infection-mediated hair loss of post-dengue fatigue syndrome. However, direct evidence for viral replication in the human hair of a dengue victim or animal infection model is required.

32162163
Preliminary studies of hair follicle regeneration by injections of epidermal stem cells and dermal papilla cells into nude mice.
The ultimate goal of organ regenerative therapy is to reproduce fully functional organs to replace which have been damaged as a result of diseases or injury. Although several studies claimed that using different types of cells in some animal models promote hair follicles regeneration, more researches can be done to develop a sufficient and efficient protocol to induce hair generation from different animal models. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic potentials for hair follicle formation by injecting a mixture of epidermal stem cells and dermal papilla cells. Those cells were isolated and culture-expanded. Then we randomly allocated 8 nude mice into two groups. The experiment group received an injection of a mixture that containing of epidermal stem cells and dermal papilla cells. The control group received injection of keratinocyte serum-free medium. The hair follicles regeneration was observed and the injection area was harvested for HE staining. 14 day later, the regenerated hair shafts were observed and HE staining indicated that the newly hair follicle formed the correct structures in experiment group. Furthermore, the mixture injection induced a regular and multilayered stratified epidermis and the epidermis contained of hair follicle-likes structures. Our data showed that injection of a mixture of epidermal stem cells and dermal papilla cells could induce hair follicles regeneration and well-ordered epidermis formation. This study emphasized that the rearrangement of the interactions during seed cells and the niches of the seed cells is essential and necessary for tissue-engineered construct success.

32174089
[Wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis: a new perspective on hair follicles regeneration in adult mammals].
Objective: To explore the research progress of the cell sources and related signaling pathways of the wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN) in recent years. Methods: The literature related to WIHN in recent years was reviewed, and the cell sources and molecular mechanism were summarized and discussed. Results: Current research shows that WIHN is a rare regeneration phenomenon in the skin of adult mammals, with multiple cell origins, both hair follicle stem cells and epithelial stem cells around the wound. Its molecular mechanism is complicated, which is regulated by many signaling pathways. Besides, the process is closely related to the immune response, the immunocytes and their related cytokines provide suitable conditions for this process. Conclusion: There are still many unsolved problems on the cellular origins and molecular mechanisms of the WIHN. Further study on the mechanisms will enhance the understanding of adult mammals' hair follicle regeneration and may provide new strategy for functional healing of the human skin.

32252830
Characterization and functional analysis of SIAH1 during skin and hair follicle development in the angora rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus).
BACKGROUND: Seven in absentia homolog 1 (SIAH1) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase containing a RING-finger domain and a key regulator of normal development. Skin and hair follicle development is a complex and special process of morphogenesis involving multiple signaling pathways. SIAH1 is enriched in the Wnt signaling pathway and potentially related to hair follicle cycle and skin development. This study aims to provide evidence for the role of SIAH1 in skin and hair development. RESULTS: Full-length cloning and analysis of SIAH1 was conducted to better understand its function. Phylogenetically, the sequence of SIAH1 in the rabbit shares the greatest homology with Home sapiens, Pongo abelii and Mus mulatta. Based on the rabbit hair follicle synchronization model, we found that the expression level of SIAH1 in the regressive period of the rabbit hair cycle is significantly lower than in the active growth and rest periods. In addition, the mRNA expression levels of skin and hair follicle development-related genes changed significantly when SIAH1 was overexpressed and silenced. After SIAH1 overexpression, the expression levels of WNT2, LEF1 and FGF2 decreased, and those of SFRP2 and DKK1 increased (P < 0.05). After interference of SIAH1, the expression levels of WNT2, LEF1 and FGF2 increased (P < 0.05), and SFRP2 and DKK1 decreased. CONCLUSIONS: SIAH1 can affect skin and hair follicle development and exert an inhibitory effect. These results could provide foundamental insights into the role of SIAH1 as a target gene in rabbit skin and hair follicle development.

32314204
Isolation of Different Dermal Fibroblast Populations from the Skin and the Hair Follicle.
The establishment of primary cells from fresh tissue is a widely used method for investigating human tissue in vitro. The skin harbors different cell populations in the dermis and the hair follicle, which can be isolated for downstream analysis. Here we describe the isolation of four dermal fibroblast populations from human haired skin and their maintenance in culture. The four cell populations for which isolation is described are papillary dermal fibroblast cells, reticular dermal fibroblast cells, hair follicle dermal sheath cells, and hair follicle dermal papilla cells.

32314211
Methods to Study Human Hair Follicle Growth Ex Vivo: Human Microdissected Hair Follicle and Human Full Thickness Skin Organ Culture.
The culture of microdissected hair follicles (HFs) and scalp skin enriched in terminal HFs are the best currently available preclinical assays for studying hair and skin biology/pathology in the human system. While microdissected HF organ culture only allows the testing of compounds added into the culture medium, mimicking a systemic application, the scalp skin organ culture also is suitable to test topical and intradermal applications. Here, we describe different methods for isolation of human scalp HFs, the procedures for culturing the scalp skin and microdissected HFs and we also outline different delivery techniques (e.g., topical, systemic) to test active and control substances.

32314213
Collapse and Restoration of Hair Follicle Immune Privilege Ex Vivo: A Model for Alopecia Areata.
Alopecia areata (AA) is a hair follicle (HF) autoimmune disease leading to hair loss. Interferon gamma (IFNgamma) is regarded as the key cytokine involved in AA development, which has been shown to play a role in the collapse of HF immune privilege (IP), CD8+ T-cell-driven inflammation toward the HF bulb, and premature catagen development. We present here the procedure to induce IP collapse in human healthy HFs ex vivo. This assay can be suitable not only to investigate mechanisms involved in the HF IP collapse but also to test substances for either preventing and/or reversing the HF IP collapse for the management of AA or other autoimmune diseases sharing similar pathogenesis.

32314214
Experimentally Induced Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition of Human Hair Follicle Stem Cells as a Model of Scarring Alopecia Ex Vivo.
"Primary cicatricial alopecia is characterized by a permanent scarring alopecia. This condition is characterized by the irreversible loss of hair follicles (HF) as a result of apoptosis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of epithelial stem cells localized in the HF bulge.We here report the procedure for experimentally induced EMT in healthy human epidermal stem cells (eSCs) using full-length HF organ culture ex vivo. The present model can be used to recapitulate the complex processes observed in scarring alopecia patient tissues, to further investigate the mechanisms involved in EMT transformation of HFeSCs, and to test substances that could prevent and/or rescue HFeSCs from EMT for the management of scarring alopecias."

32315612
Dysfunction of Hair Follicle Mesenchymal Progenitors Contributes to Age-Associated Hair Loss.
Skin aging is accompanied by hair loss due to impairments in hair follicle (HF) epithelial progenitor cells and their mesenchymal niche. This inductive mesenchyme, called dermal papilla (DP), undergoes progressive cell loss and eventual miniaturization that contributes to HF pathogenesis. Using laser ablation and fate mapping, we show that HF dermal stem cells (hfDSCs) reconstitute the damaged DP and maintain hair growth, suggesting that hfDSC dysfunction may trigger degeneration of the inductive niche. Fate mapping over 24 months revealed progressive hfDSC depletion, and in vivo clonal analysis of aged hfDSCs showed impaired self-renewal and biased differentiation. Single-cell RNA-seq confirmed hfDSCs as a central precursor, giving rise to divergent mesenchymal trajectories. In aged skin, hfDSCs exhibited senescent-like characteristics, and senescence-associated secretory phenotypes were identified in the aging HF mesenchyme. These results clarify fibroblast dynamics within the HF and suggest that progressive dysfunction within the mesenchymal progenitor pool contributes to age-related hair loss.

32330194
Deficiency of Crif1 in hair follicle stem cells retards hair growth cycle in adult mice.
Hair growth is the cyclically regulated process that is characterized by growing phase (anagen), regression phase (catagen) and resting phase (telogen). Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) play pivotal role in the control of hair growth cycle. It has been notified that stem cells have the distinguished metabolic signature compared to differentiated cells, such as the preference to glycolysis rather than mitochondrial respiration. Crif1 is a mitochondrial protein that regulates the synthesis and insertion of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) polypeptides to inner membrane of mitochondria. Several studies demonstrate that tissue-specific knockout of Crif1 leads to mitochondrial dysfunction. In this study, we investigated the effect of mitochondrial dysfunction in terms of Crif1 deficiency on the hair growth cycle of adult mice. We created two kinds of inducible conditional knockout (icKO) mice. In epidermal specific icKO mice (Crif1 K14icKO), hair growth cycle was significantly retarded compared to wild type mice. Similarly, HFSC specific icKO mice (Crif1 K15icKO) showed significant retardation of hair growth cycle in depilation-induced anagen model. Interestingly, flow cytometry revealed that HFSC populations were maintained in Crif1 K15icKO mice. These results suggest that mitochondrial function in HFSCs is important for the progression of hair growth cycle, but not for maintenance of HFSCs.

31237401
Extracellular Vesicles from Activated Dermal Fibroblasts Stimulate Hair Follicle Growth Through Dermal Papilla-Secreted Norrin.
Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) play a pivotal role in the regulation of hair follicle (HF) growth, formation, and cycling, mainly through paracrine mechanisms. In the last decade, extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been recognized as a new paracrine mechanism that can modify the physiological state of recipient cells by transferring biological material. Herein, we investigated the effect of EVs isolated from stimulated human dermal fibroblasts (DFs) on DPC activation and HF growth. We found that these EVs (st-EVs) enhanced HF growth ex vivo. Comparative transcriptomic analysis on DPCs identified specific activation of the NDP gene, encoding the non-Wnt ligand Norrin. We found that Norrin was secreted by st-EVs-stimulated DPCs activating in a noncell autonomous manner beta-catenin pathway in follicular keratinocytes (human HF keratinocyte [HHFK]) and hair growth ex vivo. Although Norrin-specific receptor Frizzled4 was barely detected in HHFK, we found its presence in DF-EVs. Accordingly, DF-EVs provided Frizzled4 to potentiate Norrin effects ex vivo. Our study identifies DF-EVs as efficient activators of DPCs and Norrin as a novel modulatory player in HF physiopathology. Stem Cells 2019;37:1166-1175.

31361909
A randomized pilot study to compare hair follicle cell suspensions prepared using trypsin alone versus trypsin in combination with collagenase type I for transplantation in vitiligo.
BACKGROUND: Noncultured extracted hair follicle outer root sheath cell suspension (NC-EHF-ORS-CS) is an upcoming surgical technique to treat stable vitiligo. Conventionally it employs trypsin to tap the hair follicle (HF) reservoir for autologous melanocytes and their precursors for transplantation. However, a perifollicular dermal sheath composed of type 1 collagen encases the target 'bulge' region of the HF. Adding collagenase type 1 would digest the ORS, facilitating better release of cells. AIM: To compare the repigmentation achieved using trypsin and a combination of collagenase plus trypsin, respectively, with dermabrasion alone, and to compare cell counts, viability and composition of both suspensions. METHODS: This was a randomized, double-blind, comparative, therapeutic trial, conducted as a pilot study on 22 patients with stable vitiligo. Three similar patches were randomized into three parallel treatment arms [(A) trypsin plus collagenase, (B) trypsin alone and (C) dermabrasion with vehicle alone]. Each patient's HF sample was divided and digested by the two methods, and transplanted as suspensions onto dermabraded patches, while a third dermabraded patch received the vehicle only. Suspensions were sent for laboratory analysis. Repigmentation was assessed over a follow-up of 6 months. RESULTS: There was a significant increase in cell yield and comparable viability when collagenase was added. Immunohistochemical and flow cytometry studies showed a nonsignificant increase in HMB45+ melanocytes and their precursor stem cells in group A. This trend was reflected clinically in the extent of repigmentation [group A (33.22%) > B (24.31%) > C (16.59%); P = 0.13]. Adding collagenase induced significantly higher repigmentation than dermabrasion alone (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Incorporating collagenase type I into the conventional NC-EHF-ORS-CS technique resulted in enhanced retrieval of pigment-forming cells and subsequently improved repigmentation in vitiligo.

31456448
Androgenetic alopecia: combing the hair follicle signaling pathways for new therapeutic targets and more effective treatment options.
Introduction: In the past 30 years, only two drugs have received FDA approval for the treatment of androgenetic alopecia reflecting a lack of success in unraveling novel targets for pharmacological intervention. However, as our knowledge of hair biology improves, new signaling pathways and organogenesis processes are being uncovered which have the potential to yield more effective therapeutic modalities. Areas covered: This review focuses on potential targets for drug development to treat hair loss. The physiological processes underlying the promise of regenerative medicine to recreate new functional hair follicles in bald scalp are also examined. Expert opinion: The discovery of promising new targets may soon enable treatment options that modulate the hair cycle to preserve or extend the growth phase of the hair follicle. These new targets could also be leveraged to stimulate progenitor cells and morphogenic pathways to reactivate miniaturized follicles in bald scalp or to harness the potential of wound healing and embryogenic development as an emerging paradigm to generate new hair follicles in barren skin.

31520488
Ginkgolide B and bilobalide promote the growth and increase beta-catenin expression in hair follicle dermal papilla cells of American minks.
The regeneration of proliferation potential of dermal papilla (DP) cells contributes to the treatment of hair loss disorders. Ginkgolide B (GKB) and bilobalide (BB) are two functional components isolated from Ginkgo biloba that can promote hair growth. In the current study, the effect of GKB or BB on DP cell viability and the related signaling was assessed. Hair follicles were isolated from minks, and the growth of hair follicles was measured under the administration of GKB or BB. DP cells isolated from minks were also subjected to GKB or BB. The administration of GKB or BB induced the growth of hair follicles. The viability of DP cells was also increased by GKB or BB as illustrated by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium and flow cytometry detection. Moreover, the secretion of VEGF was enhanced by GKB or BB. At molecular level, the activities of Akt, ERK1/2, and beta-catenin were induced by GKB, whereas BB only increased the activities of Akt and beta-catenin. In conclusion, although the two components influenced the beta-catenin signaling activity in distinct mechanisms, they both increased the viability of DP cells and promoted the cycle of hair follicles.

31601058
Monoterpenoid Loliolide Regulates Hair Follicle Inductivity of Human Dermal Papilla Cells by Activating the Akt/beta-Catenin Signaling Pathway.
Loliolide is one of the most ubiquitous monoterpenoid compounds found in algae, and its potential therapeutic effect on various dermatological conditions via agent-induced biological functions, including anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, was demonstrated. Here, we investigated the effects of loliolide on hair growth in dermal papilla (DP) cells, the main components regulating hair growth and loss conditions. For this purpose, we used a threedimensional (3D) DP spheroid model that mimics the in vivo hair follicle system. Biochemical assays showed that low doses of loliolide increased the viability and size of 3D DP spheroids in a dose-dependent manner. This result correlated with increases in expression levels of hair growth-related autocrine factors including VEGF, IGF-1, and KGF. Immunoblotting and luciferase-reporter assays further revealed that loliolide induced AKT phosphorylation, and this effect led to stabilization of beta-catenin, which plays a crucial role in the hair-inductive properties of DP cells. Further experiments showed that loliolide increased the expression levels of the DP signature genes, ALP, BMP2, VCAN, and HEY1. Furthermore, conditioned media from loliolide-treated DP spheroids significantly enhanced proliferation and the expression of hair growth regulatory genes in keratinocytes. These results suggested that loliolide could function in the hair growth inductivity of DP cells via the AKT/ beta-catenin signaling pathways.

31607478
Ectodysplasin-A2 induces apoptosis in cultured human hair follicle cells and promotes regression of hair follicles in mice.
Ectodysplasin is a ligand of the TNF family that plays a key role in ectodermal differentiation. EDA-A1 and EDA-A2 are two isoforms of ectodysplasin that differ only by the insertion of two amino acids and bind to two different receptors, ectodysplasin A receptor (EDAR) and ectodysplasin A2 receptor (EDA2R), respectively. Mutations of EDA-A1 and its receptor EDAR have been associated with hypohidrotic ecodermal dysplasia (HED). However, the role of EDA-A2 and the expression pattern of EDA2R in human hair follicles and in the mouse hair growth cycle have not been reported. In this study, we first investigated the expression of EDA2R in human hair follicles and in cultured follicular cells. EDA2R was strongly expressed in outer root sheath (ORS) cells and weakly expressed in dermal papilla (DP) cells. EDA-A2 induced the apoptosis of both ORS cells and DP cells via the activation of cleaved caspase-3. In addition, EDA2R was highly expressed in the late anagen phase compared with other phases in the hair growth cycle. Moreover, EDA-A2 induced apoptosis in cultured human hair follicle cells and in the mouse hair growth cycle, causing the premature onset of the catagen phase. Collectively, our results suggest that EDA-A2/EDA2R signaling could inhibit hair growth, and an inhibitor of EDA-A2/EDA2R signaling may be a promising agent for the treatment and prevention of hair loss.

31607627
Through the lens of hair follicle neogenesis, a new focus on mechanisms of skin regeneration after wounding.
Wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN) is a phenomenon that occurs in adult mammalian skin, where fully functional hair follicles are regenerated in the center of large full-thickness excisional wounds. Although originally discovered over 50 years ago in mice and rabbits, within the last decade it has received renewed interest, as the molecular mechanism has begun to be defined. This de novo regeneration of hair follicles largely recapitulates embryonic hair development, requiring canonical Wnt signaling in the epidermis, however, important differences between the two are beginning to come to light. TLR3 mediated double stranded RNA sensing is critical for the regeneration, activating retinoic acid signaling following wounding. Inflammatory cells, including Fgf9-producing gamma-delta T cells and macrophages, are also emerging as important mediators of WIHN. Additionally, while dispensable in embryonic hair follicle development, Shh signaling plays a major role in WIHN and may be able to redirect cells fated to scarring wounds into a regenerative phenotype. The cellular basis of WIHN is also becoming clearer, with increasing evidence suggesting an incredible level of cellular plasticity. Multiple stem cell populations, along with lineage switching of differentiated cells all contribute towards the regeneration present in WIHN. Further study of WIHN will uncover key steps in mammalian development and regeneration, potentially leading to new clinical treatments for hair-related disorders or fibrotic scarring.

31638285
Boehmite enhances hair follicle growth via stimulation of dermal papilla cells by upregulating beta-catenin signalling.
Hair growth, a complex process, has long been the subject of intense research. Recent developments in material technology have revealed boehmite as a new therapeutic modality for use in wound healing and scar reduction, indicating its beneficial effects. Nonetheless, the biological bases of the beneficial effects of boehmite remain unknown. We investigated the hair growth properties of boehmite in vitro and in vivo and observed dose-dependent proliferation of human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs) in vitro and hair regrowth in a mouse model. To investigate the effects of boehmite on the promotion of cell transition to the anagen phase, we evaluated hDPC viability, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, protein expression and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion in vitro and assessed the anagen-promoting effects of boehmite via gross observation and histological analysis in a mouse model. Boehmite increased hDPC viability, ALP activity, AKT/GSK3ss/ss-catenin pathway activity, anagen-related gene expression and VEGF secretion; moreover, it accelerated hair regrowth in a catagen-anagen transition model via upregulation of beta-catenin signalling and follicular cell proliferation. Collectively, our results indicate that boehmite accelerates hair growth, partly via its effects on critical events in the active phase of the hair follicle cycle, including the promotion of the proliferation of hDPCs and their immediate progeny to the follicle base.

31845459
Effects of photoperiod on circadian clock genes in skin contribute to the regulation of hair follicle cycling of Inner Mongolia white cashmere goats.
This study investigated how the effects of photoperiod on circadian clock genes in the skin contribute to the regulation of hair follicle cycling of Inner Mongolia white cashmere goats. Twenty-four female (non-pregnant) Inner Mongolia white cashmere goats aged 1 - 1.5 years old with similar live weights (mean, 20.36 +- 2.63 kg) were randomly allocated into two groups: a natural daily photoperiod group (NDPP group:10 - 16 hr Light, n = 12) and a short daily photoperiod group (SDPP group: 7 hr Light:17 hr Dark, n = 12). All goats were housed in individual pens from May 15 to October 15, 2015 and were fed the same diets. We detected the mRNA expression of brain and muscle arnt-like protein-1 (Bmal1), circadian locomotor output control kaput (Clock), cryptochrome-1 (Cry1), period homolog-1 (Per1) and Rev-erbalpha genes in the goat skin. ANOVA revealed a significant 24 hr (10:00 hr, 14:00 hr, 18:00 hr, 22:00 hr, 02:00 hr, 06:00 hr, 10:00 hr) variation between the SDPP and NDPP groups for three months (July, September, and October). In summary, the current results confirm that an intrinsic oscillating molecular clock exists in goat skin, and that the clock is important for potential timing mechanisms at the anagen phase of hair follicles, which would contribute to the regulation mechanisms of hair follicle cell proliferation.

31883384
Profiling the human hair follicle immune system in lichen planopilaris and frontal fibrosing alopecia: can macrophage polarization differentiate these two conditions microscopically?
BACKGROUND: Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is traditionally regarded as a variant of lichen planopilaris (LPP) based on histological features. Distinct clinical presentation, demographics and epidemiology suggest that differing pathogenic factors determine the final phenotype. OBJECTIVES: To map the hair follicle immune system in LPP and FFA by systematically comparing key inflammatory markers in defined hair follicle compartments. METHODS: Lesional scalp biopsies from LPP and FFA and healthy controls were stained with the following immunohistochemical markers: CD1a and CD209, CD4, CD8, CD56, CD68, CD123, CXCR3, forkhead box (FOX)P3, mast cell tryptase and cKit. Macrophage polarization was explored using CD206, CD163, CD86, receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE), interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 on paired lesional and nonlesional LPP and FFA samples. RESULTS: Increased numbers of CD8+ , CXCR3+ and FOXP3+ T cells and CD68+ macrophages were identified in the distal hair follicle epithelium and perifollicular mesenchyme in both LPP and FFA compared with controls. In both LPP and FFA, total and degranulated mast cells and CD123+ plasmacytoid dendritic cells were increased in the perifollicular mesenchyme adjacent to the bulge and infundibulum, whereas numbers of CD1a+ and CD209+ dendritic cells were significantly reduced in the infundibulum connective tissue sheath. However, only with CD68 staining was a significant difference between LPP and FFA identified, with greater numbers of CD68+ cells in LPP samples. Furthermore, the identified macrophage polarization markers downregulated CD86 and upregulated CD163 and IL-4 expression in lesional LPP compared with FFA samples. CONCLUSIONS: This comparative immunopathological analysis is the first to profile systematically the hair follicle immune system in LPP and FFA. Our analysis highlights a potential role of macrophages in disease pathobiology and suggests that macrophage polarization may differ between LPP and FFA, allowing microscopic differentiation. Linked Comment: Kinoshita-Ise. Br J Dermatol 2020; 183:419-420.

31917611
Characterization of HTATIP2 and its role during hair follicle cycles in Angora rabbit.
Hair follicle (HF) growth and cycling is a complex biological process that occurs in most mammals. As HF growth and cycling directly impacts rabbit wool yield, it is important to better understand the potential regulation pattern of HF development. Our previous study demonstrated that HTATIP2 may participate in regulating rabbit HF cycles, but the molecular mechanism of HTATIP2 remained unclear. In this study, the coding sequence of the HTATIP2 gene in Angora rabbit was cloned. The length of the coding region sequence was 840 bp, which could code 279 amino acids, and exhibited high homology in different mammals. Bioinformatics analyses indicated that the HTATIP2 protein is stable, hydrophilic, located around the cytoplasm, and has a putative signal peptide. Moreover, we verified that HTATIP2 is highly expressed during catagen and telogen of the HF cycle. The overexpression vector was constructed and siRNAs were designed. Overexpression and knockdown of HTATIP2 appeared to regulate JAK-STAT pathway genes, such as BCL2, CCND1, c-Myc, and STAT2. It is therefore likely that HTATIP2 promotes cell apoptosis and inhibits cell proliferation. Our results indicate that HTATIP2 is highly expressed during catagen and telogen and may play an important role in JAK-STAT signaling. This study provides a theoretical foundation for investigating HTATIP2 in biological processes.

32003218
Cellular Nanofiber Structure with Secretory Activity-Promoting Characteristics for Multicellular Spheroid Formation and Hair Follicle Regeneration.
Multicellular spheroids can mimic the in vivo microenvironment and maintain the unique functions of tissues, which has attracted great attention in tissue engineering. However, the traditional culture microenvironment with structural deficiencies complicates the culture and collection process and tends to lose the function of multicellular spheroids with the increase of cell passage. In order to construct efficient and functional multicellular spheroids, in this study, a chitosan/polyvinyl alcohol nanofiber sponge which has an open-cell cellular structure is obtained. The hair follicle (HF) regeneration model was employed to evaluate HF-inducing ability of dermal papilla (DP) multicellular spheroids which formed on the cellular structure nanofiber sponge. Through structural fine-tuning, the nanofiber sponge has appropriate elasticity for the creation of a three-dimensional dynamic microenvironment to regulate cellular behavior. The cellular structure nanofiber sponge tilts the balance of cell-substratum and cell-cell interactions to a state which is more conducive to the formation of controllable multicellular spheroids in a short time. More importantly, it improves the secretory activity of high-passaged dermal papilla cells and restores their intrinsic properties. Experiments using BALB/c nude mice show that cultured DP multicellular spheroids could effectively enhance HF-inducing ability. This novel system provides a simple and efficient strategy for multicellular spheroid formation and HF regeneration.

32035093
Lgr4 Deletion Delays the Hair Cycle and Inhibits the Activation of Hair Follicle Stem Cells.
It is known that LGR4 plays an important role in hair follicle (HF) development, but the impact of LGR4 on the hair cycle is still unclear. In this study, we have found that K14-Cre-mediated skin epithelia-specific deletion of Lgr4 results in delayed anagen entry during the physiological hair cycle and compromised HF regeneration upon transplantation. We show that, although Lgr4 deletion does not appear to affect the number of quiescent HF stem cells, it leads to reduced numbers of LGR5+ and actively proliferating stem cells in the HFs. Moreover, LGR4-deficient HFs show molecular changes consistent with decreased mTOR and Wnt signaling but upregulated BMP signaling. Importantly, the reactivation of the protein kinase B pathway by injecting the protein kinase B activator SC79 in Lgr4-/- mice can effectively reverse the hair cycle delay. Together, these data suggest that LGR4 promotes the normal hair cycle by activating HF stem cells and by influencing the activities of multiple signaling pathways that are known to regulate HF stem cells. Our study also implicates LGR4 as a potential target for treating hair disorder in the future.

32298297
Exploring differentially expressed genes between anagen and telogen secondary hair follicle stem cells from the Cashmere goat (Capra hircus) by RNA-Seq.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) have been shown to be essential in the development and regeneration of hair follicles (HFs). The Inner Mongolia Cashmere goat (Capra hircus) has two types of HFs, primary and secondary, with cashmere being produced from the secondary hair follicle. To identify the genes associated with cashmere growth, transcriptome profiling of anagen and telogen secondary HFSCs was performed by RNA-Seq. The RNA-Seq analysis generated over 58 million clean reads from each group, with 2717 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) detected between anagen and telogen, including 1500 upregulated and 1217 downregulated DEGs. A large number of DEGs were predominantly associated with cell part, cellular process, binding, biological regulation and organelle. In addition, the PI3K-Akt, MAPK, Ras and Rap1 signaling pathways may be involved in the growth of HFSCs cultured in vitro. The RNA-Seq results showed that the well-defined HFSC signature genes and cell cycle-associated genes showed no significant differences between anagen and telogen HFSCs, indicating a relatively quiescent cellular state of the HFSCs cultured in vitro. These results are useful for future studies of complex molecular mechanisms of hair follicle cycling in cashmere goats.

32589363
miR-203a-3p promotes loureirin A-induced hair follicle stem cells differentiation by targeting Smad1.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) participate in the repair of skin trauma. Our previous study indicated that loureirin A promoted hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) to repair skin epidermis. However, the mechanism of miRNA-mediated regulation of loureirin A-induced HFSC differentiation remained to be explored. In the present study, HFSCs from rat vibrissa were identified by immunofluorescence in vitro. Microarray and quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction analyses demonstrated that miR-203a-3p was upregulated in differentiated HFSCs induced by loureirin A. The expression of cytoskeletal keratin (CK) 5 and involucrin was promoted by miR-203a-3p mimics while repressed by a miR-203a-3p inhibitor. Smad1 was identified as a key target of miR-203a-3p using target prediction tools. Luciferase reporter gene test confirmed a special target association between miR-203a-3p and Smad1. Short interfering Smad1 was transfected into HFSCs, and the expression levels of CK5 and involucrin were upregulated. Thus, it can be inferred that miR-203a-3p negatively regulated the expression of Smad1 and promoted the differentiation of loureirin A-induced HFSCs. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signal inhibition and Wnt activation coregulate skin injury repair. BMP/Smad1 signaling is involved in maintaining the characteristics of HFSCs and inhibiting their differentiation. Our results showed that miR-203a-3p reduces Smad1 to release BMP inhibition. Taken together, miR-203a-3p/Smad1 is a potential therapeutic molecular target in skin wound healing, and may play an active role in wound repair and regenerative medicine.

32654537
Development of model based on clock gene expression of human hair follicle cells to estimate circadian time.
Considering the effects of circadian misalignment on human pathophysiology and behavior, it is important to be able to detect an individual's endogenous circadian time. We developed an endogenous Clock Estimation Model (eCEM) based on a machine learning process using the expression of 10 circadian genes. Hair follicle cells were collected from 18 healthy subjects at 08:00, 11:00, 15:00, 19:00, and 23:00 h for two consecutive days, and the expression patterns of 10 circadian genes were obtained. The eCEM was designed using the inverse form of the circadian gene rhythm function (i.e., Circadian Time = F(gene)), and the accuracy of eCEM was evaluated by leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV). As a result, six genes (PER1, PER3, CLOCK, CRY2, NPAS2, and NR1D2) were selected as the best model, and the error range between actual and predicted time was 3.24 h. The eCEM is simple and applicable in that a single time-point sampling of hair follicle cells at any time of the day is sufficient to estimate the endogenous circadian time.

32849769
LncRNA H19 Overexpression Activates Wnt Signaling to Maintain the Hair Follicle Regeneration Potential of Dermal Papilla Cells.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is a common hair loss disorder resulting in seriously abnormal social interaction and psychological disorders. Transplantation with autologous dermal papilla cells represents a prospective therapy. However, the ability of dermal papilla cells to induce hair follicle development is lost upon cell culturing. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are an important class of genes involved in various biological functions, are aberrantly expressed in disease and may play roles in the regulation of Wnt signaling, a critical pathway in maintaining the hair follicle-inducing capability of dermal papilla cells. Examination of dermal papilla cells by lncRNA microarray revealed that H19 was highly expressed in early passage dermal papilla cells compared with late-passage dermal papilla cells. In this study, we constructed H19-overexpressing dermal papilla cells to examine the role of H19 on hair follicle inductivity. Dermal papilla cells infected with lentivirus encoding H19 maintained their cell shape, and continued to display both multiple-layer aggregation and hair follicle-inducing ability upon prolonged culture. H19 exerted these effects through inducing miR-29a to activate Wnt signaling by directly downregulating the expression of Wnt suppressors, including DKK1, Kremen2, and sFRP2, thereby forming a novel regulatory feedback loop between H19 and miR-29a to maintain hair follicle- inducing potential. These results suggest that lncRNA H19 maintains the hair follicle-inducing ability of dermal papilla cells through activation of the Wnt pathway and could be a target for treatment of androgenetic alopecia.

32924817
Hair follicle stem cells promote cutaneous wound healing through the SDF-1alpha/CXCR4 axis: an animal model.
OBJECTIVE: An appropriate source of adult stem cells for therapeutic use is stem cells deriving from the hair follicle bulge. Following injury, ischaemic tissues produce a variety of cytokines and growth factors that are essential for tissue repair. This study sought to investigate the temporal effects of hair follicle bulge stem cells (HFSCs) on cutaneous wound healing in rats using the SDF-1alpha/CXCR4 axis. METHOD: HFSCs obtained from rat vibrissa, labeled with DiI and then special markers, were detected using flow cytometry. The animals were divided into five groups: control (non-treated, n=18), sham (PBS, n=18), AMD (treated with AMD3100, n=18), HFSC + AMD (treated with HFSCs + AMD3100, n=18) and HFSC (treated with HFSCs, n=18). A full-thickness excisional wound model was created and DiI-labeled HFSCs were injected around the wound bed. Wound healing was recorded with digital photographs. The animals were sacrificed 3, 7 and 14 days after the surgery and were used for histological (H&E, Masson's trichrome staining) and molecular (ELISA and q-PCR) assays. RESULTS: The flow cytometry results demonstrated that HFSCs were CD34-positive, nestin-positive, but Kr15-negative. The morphological analysis of the HFSC-treated wounds showed accelerated wound closure. The histological analysis of the photomicrographs exhibited more re-epithelialisation and dermal structural regeneration in the HFSC-treated wounds compared with the control group. In the HFSC + AMD group, the histological parameters improved on the same days, but showed a significant decrease compared with the HFSC group in all the days assayed. In the AMD group, there was a significant reduction in the noted parameters. qRT-PCR and ELISA showed a high expression level of SDF-1alpha, CXCR4 and VEGFR-2 in the HFSC-treated wounded skin tissue, but the expression of CXCR4 and VEGFR-2 showed a significant reduction in the HFSC + AMD group compared with the HFSC group. CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings of this study, HFSC transplantation affects wound closure parameters and the expression of SDF-1alpha and CXCR4. As the SDF-1alpha expression level increases in the injured area, the HFSCs contribute to wound repair through the SDF-1alpha/CXCR4 axis. This result is extremely valuable because it raises the possibility of wounds healed by isolating autologous HFSCs from the patient.

32954569
Spatial association of SEMA3C with nerve endings/terminal Schwann cells in hair follicle isthmus region.
Nerve endings and terminal Schwann cells (TSCs) specifically and densely surround hair follicle at isthmus area, forming a neuromuscular-junction-like structure called lanceolate complex. The interplay between neuronal components and epidermis in this specialized structure enables hair to properly sense complex stimuli from environments. However, how nerves precisely attach to and innervate this specific region during development remains to be elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that SEMA3C, a secreted protein member of semaphorin family responsible for axonal guidance, is localized right below sebaceous gland and in close approximation with nerve endings and TSCs processes all through the entire hair cycle. SEMA3C protein is deposited outside of epithelial cells and its expression is independent on the presence of nerve endings/TSCs. SEMA3C is also found in portions of dermal papilla at growth phase. The tight spatial association of SEMA3C with lanceolate complex suggests that it might play roles in establishment and/or maintenance of the lanceolate complex in hair follicle.

32957063
Cx43 promotes SHF-DPCs proliferation in the hair follicle of Albas cashmere goats from anagen to telogen.
Connexin 43 (Cx43), known to form gap junction transmembrane channels between the cytoplasm of two adjacent cells, plays a key role in physiological functions, such as regulating cell growth, differentiation, and maintaining tissue homeostasis. Cashmere goat is an important farm animal that provides cashmere, which was produced by secondary hair follicles (SHF), for human consumption; however, there is no report about the role of Cx43 on the growth and development of SHF in cashmere goat. In this study, we investigated the effect of Cx43 on proliferation secondary hair follicle dermal papilla cells (SHF-DPCs) in Albas cashmere goat. In SHF-DPCs, Cx43 overexpression promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the expression of IGF-1, whereas Cx43 knockdown was associated with the opposite effects. These results suggested that Cx43 may promote cell proliferation by inducing IGF-1. Overall, our research not only contributes to a better understanding of the mechanism of the growth and development of SHF in cashmere goat, but also shed light on cashmere quality control in the future.

32984299
IL-36alpha Promoted Wound Induced Hair Follicle Neogenesis via Hair Follicle Stem/Progenitor Cell Proliferation.
Background: Wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN) is a phenomenon of hair neogenesis that occurs at the center of a scar when the wound area is sufficiently large. Neogenic hair follicles are separated from the pre-existing follicles at the wound edge by a hairless circular region. This WIHN study provides a unique model for developing treatments for hair loss and deciphering the mechanisms underlying organogenesis in adult mammals. Methods: The skin of a mouse was wounded by excising a 1.5 x 1.5 cm2 square of full-thickness dorsal skin. iTRAQ technology was used to screen proteins differentially expressed between the inner and outer scar areas in a mouse model of WIHN, on post-wounding day 15, to identify the regulators of WIHN. Owing to the overexpression of interleukin-36alpha (IL-36alpha) in the de novo hair follicle growth area, the regulating effect of IL-36alpha overexpression in WIHN was investigated. Hair follicle stem/progenitor cells were counted by flow cytometry while the expression of hair follicle stem/progenitor cell markers (Lgr5, Lgr6, Lrig1, K15, and CD34) and that of Wnt/beta-catenin and IL-6/STAT3 pathway intermediaries was detected by qPCR and western blotting. Results: We found that wounding induced IL-36alpha expression. Incorporation of recombinant murine IL-36alpha (mrIL-36alpha) into murine skin wounds resulted in a greater number of regenerated hair follicles (p < 0.005) and a faster healing rate. The expression of hair follicle stem/progenitor cell markers was upregulated in the mrIL-36alpha-injected site (p < 0.05). Additionally, mrIL-36alpha upregulated the IL-6/STAT3 pathway intermediaries. Conclusion: IL-36alpha is upregulated in de novo hair follicle growth areas and can promote wound epithelialization and WIHN.

33034877
Hair Follicle as a Source of Pigment-Producing Cells for Treatment of Vitiligo: An Alternative to Epidermis?
To discuss the advantages and limitations of hair follicle-derived cell transplantation (FCT) in vitiligo, compared to the epidermal cell transplantation (ECT), and the knowledge gap which is required to be bridged. The papers relevant to the purpose was reviewed. Surgical approaches for treating vitiligo are based on the idea of replenishing lost melanocytes. Skin and hair follicles as the main sources of melanocytes have been applied for this purpose transferring the whole tissue or tissue-derived cell suspension to the vitiligo lesions. Considering the differences between hair follicle and epidermis in terms of the constituting cell populations, phenotype and function of melanocytes, and micro-environmental factors, different response of vitiligo patients to treatment with FCT or ECT would be expected theoretically. However, there is currently a lack of evidence on such a difference. However, ECT appears to be a more feasible, less time-consuming, and more comfortable treatment for both physicians and patients. Although the current evidence has not shown a significant difference between ECT and FCT in terms of efficacy, ECT appears to be more feasible specifically in the treatment of large lesions. However, further randomized controlled clinical trials with larger sample sizes and longer follow-up durations are required to be conducted to draw a definite conclusion on comparing FCT with ECT in terms of the safety, efficacy, durability of the therapeutic effects, and indications in vitiligo patients.

33126774
Nonanal Stimulates Growth Factors via Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate (cAMP) Signaling in Human Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells.
Human hair follicle dermal papilla cells (DPCs) are a specialized population of cells located in the hair follicles and regulate hair growth and development, particularly by releasing numerous growth factors in response to various physiological conditions. In the present study, we aimed to test whether nonanal, a scent compound from plants, stimulated growth factors in DPCs and to delineate the underlying mechanisms involved. We found that nonanal promoted DPC proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Meanwhile, it also increased the intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels and the expression of various growth factor genes such as vascular endothelial growth factor, keratinocyte growth factor, and insulin-like growth factor 1. Furthermore, nonanal treatment stimulated DPC migration. Notably, the benefits of nonanal use were abrogated by cAMP inhibition. Our results reveal the potential of nonanal in preventing hair loss and suggest that its effects are cAMP-mediated in DPCs.

33240882
Epidermal Stem Cells in Hair Follicle Cycling and Skin Regeneration: A View From the Perspective of Inflammation.
There are many studies devoted to the role of hair follicle stem cells in wound healing as well as in follicle self-restoration. At the same time, the influence of the inflammatory cells on the hair follicle cycling in both injured and intact skin is well established. Immune cells of all wound healing stages, including macrophages, gammadeltaT cells, and T regs, may activate epidermal stem cells to provide re-epithelization and wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis. In addition to the ability of epidermal cells to maintain epidermal morphogenesis through differentiation program, they can undergo de-differentiation and acquire stem features under the influence of inflammatory milieu. Simultaneously, a stem cell compartment may undergo re-programming to adopt another fate. The proportion of skin resident immune cells and wound-attracted inflammatory cells (e.g., neutrophils and macrophages) in wound-induced hair follicle anagen and plucking-induced anagen is still under discussion to date. Experimental data suggesting the role of reactive oxygen species and prostaglandins, which are uncharacteristic of the intact skin, in the hair follicle cycling indicates the role of neutrophils in injury-induced conditions. In this review, we discuss some of the hair follicles stem cell activities, such as wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis, hair follicle cycling, and re-epithelization, through the prism of inflammation. The plasticity of epidermal stem cells under the influence of inflammatory microenvironment is considered. The relationship between inflammation, scarring, and follicle neogenesis as an indicator of complete wound healing is also highlighted. Taking into consideration the available data, we also conclude that there may exist a presumptive interlink between the stem cell activation, inflammation and the components of programmed cell death pathways.

33262781
miR-149-5p Regulates Goat Hair Follicle Stem Cell Proliferation and Apoptosis by Targeting the CMTM3/AR Axis During Superior-Quality Brush Hair Formation.
The Yangtze River Delta white goat is a unique goat species that can produce superior quality brush hair. CKLF-like MARVEL transmembrane domain-containing 3 (CMTM3), which influences the transcriptional activity of androgen receptor (AR), was identified as a candidate gene related to superior-quality brush hair formation. CMTM3 is generally expressed at low levels, but miR-149-5p is highly expressed in the skin tissues of these goats. The mechanism by which CMTM3 regulates the proliferation and apoptosis of goat hair follicle stem cells has not been elucidated. Here, RT-qPCR, western blotting, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), cell cycle, apoptosis, and dual-luciferase assays were used to investigate the role and regulatory mechanism of CMTM3 and miR-149-5p. Functional studies showed that CMTM3 overexpression inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in cultured hair follicle stem cells, whereas silencing CMTM3 markedly facilitated cell proliferation and deterred apoptosis in cultured hair follicle stem cells. Then, using bioinformatic predictions and the aforementioned assays, including dual-luciferase assays, RT-qPCR, and western blotting, we confirmed that miR-149-5p targets CMTM3 and preliminarily investigated the interaction between CMTM3 and AR in goat hair follicle stem cells. Furthermore, miR-149-5p overexpression significantly accelerated the proliferation and attenuated the apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells. Conversely, miR-149-5p inhibition suppressed the proliferation and induced the apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells. These results reveal a miR-149-5p-related regulatory framework for the miR-149-5p/CMTM3/AR axis during superior quality brush hair formation, in which CMTM3 plays a negative role.

33358944
CMTM3 overexpression promotes cell apoptosis while DHT promotes cell proliferation in hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs).
In Yangtze River Delta white goat, hypermethylation of CMTM3 leads to a decreased expression level in high quality brush hair. However, the regulation of CMTM3 expression and its function in hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) remains largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the regulation of CMTM3 expression, function, and molecular mechanism in HFSCs. The re-expression of CMTM3 significantly suppressed the proliferation of HFSCs by inducing G1 cell cycle arrest and promoting apoptosis. Moreover, the downregulation of CMTM3 promoted HFSC proliferation. Treatment with sh_CMTM3 and incubation in a DHT culture medium had the most significant growth-promoting effect. It was hypothesized that transcriptome analysis using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) in samples would enable the identification of unique protein-coding and non-coding genes that may help uncover the role of CMTM3. Multiple genes and pathways were involved in this process, including 168 common DEGs, such as CXCL8 and E-selectin, which is reportedly involved in multiple regulatory pathways. These results indicated that CMTM3 can function as HFSCs through the induction of a G1 cell cycle arrest and promoted apoptosis by mediating crosstalk between several pathways and transcription factors. Our data is available in the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database with the accession number PRJNA657430.

33451331
Interfollicular epidermal stem-like cells for the recreation of the hair follicle epithelial compartment.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle (HF) development and growth are dependent on epithelial-mesenchymal interactions (EMIs). Dermal papilla (DP) cells are recognized as the key inductive mesenchymal player, but the ideal source of receptive keratinocytes for human HF regeneration is yet to be defined. We herein investigated whether human interfollicular epidermal keratinocytes with stem-like features (EpSlKCs), characterized by a alpha6bri/CD71dim expression, can replace human hair follicular keratinocytes (HHFKCs) for the recreation of the HF epithelium and respective EMIs. METHODS: The alpha6bri/CD71dim cellular fraction was selected from the whole interfollicular keratinocyte population through fluorescence-activated cell sorting and directly compared with follicular keratinocytes in terms of their proliferative capacity and phenotype. The crosstalk with DP cells was studied in an indirect co-culture system, and EpSlKC hair forming capacity tested in a hair reconstitution assay when combined with DP cells. RESULTS: EpSlKCs exhibited a phenotypic profile similar to follicular keratinocytes and were capable of increasing DP cell proliferation and, for short co-culture times, the number of alkaline phosphatase-active cells, suggesting an improvement of their inductivity. Moreover, the recreation of immature HFs and sebaceous glands was observed after EpSlKC and DP cell co-grafting in nude mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that EpSlKCs are akin to follicular keratinocytes and can crosstalk with DP cells, contributing to HF morphogenesis in vivo, thus representing an attractive epithelial cell source for hair regeneration strategies.

33598985
Stress-associated ectopic differentiation of melanocyte stem cells and ORS amelanotic melanocytes in an ex vivo human hair follicle model.
Hair greying depends on the altered presence and functionality of hair follicle melanocytes. Melanocyte stem cells (MelSCs) reside in the bulge of hair follicles and give rise to migrating and differentiating progeny during the anagen phase. Ageing, genotoxic stress, redox stress and multiple behaviour-associated acute stressors have been seen to induce hair greying by depleting the MelSC pool, a phenomenon which is accompanied by ectopic pigmentation of these cells, followed by their depletion from the stem cell niche. This aberrant differentiation produces a state from which a return to stem cell-like quiescence appears to be lost. The cellular features of stress-induced hair greying have been extensively studied in murine models. Here, we describe a method to assess and quantify human hair follicle MelSC differentiation by measuring ectopically pigmented MelSCs in isolated human hair follicles exposed to specific stress signal mediators. Ionizing radiation, hydrogen peroxide and noradrenaline have been shown to cause hair greying in mice. We demonstrate here that isolated, ex vivo cultured human hair follicles exposed to these treatments display similar ectopic pigmentation within the bulge area which is accompanied by induction of differentiated melanocytic markers. This study suggests that as in murine models, stress signalling induces closely matching phenotypic changes in human hair follicles which can be monitored and studied as a surrogate model for early steps in human hair greying.

33687680
Generation of Epidermal Equivalents from Hair Follicle Melanocytes, Keratinocytes, and Dermal Fibroblasts.
Bench-to-bedside axis of therapeutic product development is currently being oriented towards minimum invasiveness on both ends-not only clinical application but harvesting of the starting biological material as well. This is particularly relevant for Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products and their specific legislative requirements, even more so in skin regeneration. It is precisely the skin equivalents and grafts that benefit from the minimum-to-noninvasive approach to a noteworthy extent, taking in account the sensitive nature of both skin harvesting and grafting.This chapter includes protocols for two separate steps of generating skin equivalent from the cells cultured from hair follicle outer root sheath. The first step is a non-pigmented epidermal equivalent generated from human keratinocytes from the outer root sheath named non-pigmented epidermal graft. The second step consists of co-cultivating human keratinocytes and human melanocytes from the outer root sheath, hereby producing a pigmented epidermal graft.

33706040
Dermal macrophage and its potential in inducing hair follicle regeneration.
Hair follicle (HF) is an excellent mini-model to study adult tissue regeneration, since it can regenerate itself under appropriate stress settings via interaction with niche components. Dermal macrophages, a group of heterogeneous cell populations, serve as key regulators in this microenvironment. Recent advances in phenotype identification and lineage tracing have unveiled various dermal macrophage subsets involved in stress-induced hair regeneration through different mechanisms, where HF structural integrity is impaired to varying degrees. This review summarized current knowledge regarding the distribution, sources, phenotypes of dermal macrophages in association with HF, as well as the mechanisms underlying macrophage-mediated hair regeneration in response to different internal-stress settings. Further investigation on macrophage dynamics will provide novel cell-targeting therapies for HF engineering and hair loss.

33880808
Hair follicle stem cells as a skin-organizing signaling center during adult homeostasis.
Stem cells are the essential source of building blocks for tissue homeostasis and regeneration. Their behavior is dictated by both cell-intrinsic cues and extrinsic cues from the microenvironment, known as the stem cell niche. Interestingly, recent work began to demonstrate that hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are not only passive recipients of signals from the surroundings, but also actively send out signals to modulate the organization and function of their own niches. Here, we discuss recent findings, and briefly refer to the old, on the interaction of HFSCs and their niches with the emphasis on the outwards signals from HFSCs toward their niches. We also highlight recent technology advancements that further promote our understanding of HFSC niches. Taken together, the HFSCs emerge as a skin-organizing center rich in signaling output for niche remodeling during various stages of adult skin homeostasis. The intricate crosstalk between HFSCs and their niches adds important insight to skin biology that will inform clinical and bioengineering fields aiming to build complete and functional 3D organotypic cultures for skin replacement therapies.

34040410
Effects of UV Induced-Photoaging on the Hair Follicle Cycle of C57BL6/J Mice.
Purpose: To study the changes in the hair follicle cycle and related stem cells induced by photoaging to establish a mouse model of senescence in hair follicles. Methods: There were 54 C57BL6/J mice randomly divided into three groups. The UVA group and the UVB group underwent photoaging induced by UV lamps for 8 weeks. Changes in skin and the hair follicle cycle were compared by physical signs, dermoscopy, and hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's staining in each group. Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and RT-qPCR were carried out to test canonical proteins and gene expression of the Wnt signaling pathway in the samples. Immunofluorescence was chosen to show variations in the stem cells related to the hair follicle cycle. Results: There were more gray hairs in the UVA group than the other groups (P<0.05). Both diameter of the hair shaft and depth of hair root were significantly decreased in the UV groups (P<0.05). Stem cells and melanocytes of the hair follicles were reduced in the UVA group. UV, especially UVB, up-regulated the expression of the Wnt signaling pathway and prolonged anagen and telogen phases in the hair follicles, compared with the control group (P<0.05). Conclusion: By decreasing the number of stem cells related to hair follicles, UVA induces hair follicle photoaging characterized by hair follicle miniaturization and gray hairs. UV up-regulated the expression of the Wnt signaling pathway, and the hair follicle cycle was significantly prolonged by UVB.

34065598
Osteogenic Potential of Mesenchymal Stem Cells from Adipose Tissue, Bone Marrow and Hair Follicle Outer Root Sheath in a 3D Crosslinked Gelatin-Based Hydrogel.
Bone transplantation is regarded as the preferred therapy to treat a variety of bone defects. Autologous bone tissue is often lacking at the source, and the mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) responsible for bone repair mechanisms are extracted by invasive procedures. This study explores the potential of autologous mesenchymal stem cells derived from the hair follicle outer root sheath (MSCORS). We demonstrated that MSCORS have a remarkable capacity to differentiate in vitro towards the osteogenic lineage. Indeed, when combined with a novel gelatin-based hydrogel called Osteogel, they provided additional osteoinductive cues in vitro that may pave the way for future application in bone regeneration. MSCORS were also compared to MSCs from adipose tissue (ADMSC) and bone marrow (BMMSC) in a 3D Osteogel model. We analyzed gel plasticity, cell phenotype, cell viability, and differentiation capacity towards the osteogenic lineage by measuring alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, calcium deposition, and specific gene expression. The novel injectable hydrogel filled an irregularly shaped lesion in a porcine wound model displaying high plasticity. MSCORS in Osteogel showed a higher osteo-commitment in terms of calcium deposition and expression dynamics of OCN, BMP2, and PPARG when compared to ADMSC and BMMSC, whilst displaying comparable cell viability and ALP activity. In conclusion, autologous MSCORS combined with our novel gelatin-based hydrogel displayed a high capacity for differentiation towards the osteogenic lineage and are acquired by non-invasive procedures, therefore qualifying as a suitable and expandable novel approach in the field of bone regeneration therapy.

34107258
miR-24 controls the regenerative competence of hair follicle progenitors by targeting Plk3.
Maintaining a suitable level of sensitivity to environmental cues is crucial for proper function of adult stem cells. Here, we explore how the intrinsic sensitivity of skin hair follicle (HF) progenitors to growth stimuli is dynamically regulated. We discover miR-24 is an miRNA whose expression in HF progenitors inversely correlates with their growth potency in vivo. We show that its upregulation in adult skin epithelium leads to blunted responses of HF progenitors to growth cues and retards hair regeneration, while its conditional ablation leads to hyper-sensitized growth responsiveness of HF progenitors and precocious hair regeneration. Mechanistically, we find that miR-24 limits the intrinsic growth competence of HF progenitor by directly targeting Plk3, whose downregulation leads to reduced expression of CCNE1, a key cyclin for cell-cycle entry. These findings reveal an miRNA-mediated dynamic and cell-intrinsic mechanism used by HF progenitors to adapt their regenerative competence for different physiological conditions.

34194323
TMT-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Effect of Bone Marrow Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cell on Hair Follicle Regeneration.
Hair loss (HL) is a common chronic problem of poorly defined etiology. Herein, we explored the functionality of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC) and conditioned medium (MSC-CM) as regulators of hair follicle proliferation and regeneration, and the mechanistic basis for such activity. BMSC were cultured and identified in vitro through the induction of multilineage differentiation and the use of a CCK-8 kit. The dorsal skin of mice was then injected with BMSC and MSC-CM, and the impact of these injections on hair cycle transition and hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) proliferation was then evaluated via hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and immunofluorescent (IF) staining. We then conducted a tandem mass tags (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic analysis of control mice and mice treated with BMSC or MSC-CM to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) associated with these treatments. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was utilized as a means of verifying our proteomic analysis results. Herein, we found that BMSC and MSC-CM injection resulted in the transition of telogen hair follicles to anagen hair follicles, and we observed the enhanced proliferation of HFSCs positive for Krt15 and Sox9. Our TMT analyses identified 1,060 and 770 DEPs (fold change>1.2 or<0.83 and p < 0.05) when comparing the BMSC vs. control and MSC-CM vs. control groups, respectively. Subsequent PRM validation of 14 selected DEPs confirmed these findings, and led to the identification of Stmn1, Ncapd2, Krt25, and Ctps1 as hub DEPs in a protein-protein interaction network. Together, these data suggest that BMSC and MSC-CM treatment can promote the proliferation of HFSCs, thereby facilitating hair follicle regeneration. Our proteomics analyses further indicate that Krt25, Cpm, Stmn1, and Mb may play central roles in hair follicle transition in this context and may represent viable clinical targets for the treatment of HL.

34239060
Niche stiffening compromises hair follicle stem cell potential during ageing by reducing bivalent promoter accessibility.
Tissue turnover requires activation and lineage commitment of tissue-resident stem cells (SCs). These processes are impacted by ageing, but the mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we addressed the mechanisms of ageing in murine hair follicle SCs (HFSCs) and observed a widespread reduction in chromatin accessibility in aged HFSCs, particularly at key self-renewal and differentiation genes, characterized by bivalent promoters occupied by active and repressive chromatin marks. Consistent with this, aged HFSCs showed reduced ability to activate bivalent genes for efficient self-renewal and differentiation. These defects were niche dependent as the transplantation of aged HFSCs into young recipients or synthetic niches restored SC functions. Mechanistically, the aged HFSC niche displayed widespread alterations in extracellular matrix composition and mechanics, resulting in mechanical stress and concomitant transcriptional repression to silence promoters. As a consequence, increasing basement membrane stiffness recapitulated age-related SC changes. These data identify niche mechanics as a central regulator of chromatin state, which, when altered, leads to age-dependent SC exhaustion.

34659357
Differential Methylation and Transcriptome Integration Analysis Identified Differential Methylation Annotation Genes and Functional Research Related to Hair Follicle Development in Sheep.
Hair follicle growth and development are a complex and long-term physiological process, which is regulated by a variety of physical factors and signal pathways. Increasing the understanding of the epigenetic regulation and function of candidate genes related to hair follicle development will help to better understand the molecular regulatory mechanisms of hair follicle development. In this study, the methylated DNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeDIP-seq) was used to obtain the genome-wide methylation map of the hair follicular development of Super Merino sheep in six stages (fetal skin tissue at 65d, 85d, 105d, 135d, 7d, and 30d after birth). Combined with the results of previous RNA-sequencing, 65 genes were screened out that were both differential methylation and differential expression, including EDN1, LAMC2, NR1D1, RORB, MyOZ3, and WNT2 gene. Differential methylation genes were enriched in Wnt, TNF, TGF-beta, and other signaling pathways related to hair follicle development. The bisulfite sequencing PCR results and MeDIP-seq were basically consistent, indicating that the sequencing results were accurate. As a key gene in the Wnt signaling pathway, both differential methylation and expression gene identified by MeDIP-seq and RNA-seq, further exploration of the function of WNT2 gene revealed that the DNA methylation of exon 5 (CpG11 site) promoted the expression of WNT2 gene. The overexpression vector of lentivirus pLEX-MCS-WNT2 was constructed, and WNT2 gene effectively promoted the proliferation of sheep skin fibroblasts. The results showed that WNT2 gene could promote the growth and development of skin and hair follicles. The results of this study will provide a theoretical basis for further research on sheep hair follicle development and gene regulation mechanisms.

34922948
Hedgehog-signalling in papillary fibroblasts is essential for hair follicle regeneration during wound healing.
Patients suffering from large scars such as burn victims not only encounter aesthetical challenges but also ongoing itching or pain that substantially deteriorates their quality of life. Skin appendages such as hair follicles (HFs) rarely regenerate within the healing wound. As they are crucial for skin homeostasis and the lack thereof constitutes one of the main limitations to scarless wound healing, their regeneration represents a major objective for regenerative medicine. Fibroblasts, the main resident cell type of the skin dermis, mediate embryonic HF morphogenesis and are particularly involved in wound healing as they orchestrate extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and collagen deposition in the wound bed. Importantly, dermal fibroblasts originate from two distinct developmental lineages with unique functions that differently mediate the response to epidermal signals such as Hedgehog (Hh)-signalling. In the present study, we show that Hh-signalling in the reticular fibroblast lineage promotes the initial phase of wound repair, possibly by modulating angiogenesis and fibroblast proliferation, while Hh-signalling in papillary fibroblasts is essential to induce de novo HF formation within the healing wound.

35066002
KLHL24-mediated hair follicle stem cells structural disruption causes alopecia.
Kelch-like protein 24 (KLHL24) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase. Mutations in the start codon of KLHL24 result in truncated KLHL24 protein lacking the initial 28 amino acids (KLHL24-DeltaN28). KLHL24-DeltaN28 is more stable than wide-type KLHL24 and causes excessive degradation of keratin 14, leading to epidermolysis bullosa (EB). KLHL24-related EB patients usually develop alopecia, which is uncommon in EB patients. The mechanisms by which KLHL24 mutations cause alopecia is currently unclear. Here, we show that KLHL24 regulates hair maintenance by mediating the stability of keratin 15. Using a Klhl24c.3G>T knock-in mouse model, we identify that KLHL24-DeltaN28 disrupts the structure of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). Destructed HFSCs cannot anchor hairs and cause premature hair loss. Long-term destruction of HFSCs causes their exhaustion and hair follicle degeneration. Mechanically, KLHL24 mediates the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of keratin 15, an intermediate filament composing the HFSC cytoskeleton network. Keratin 15 is dramatically decreased in the skin of Klhl24c.3G>T mice as well as KLHL24-related EB patients. These findings demonstrate that KLHL24 plays a role in hair maintenance by regulating the cytoskeleton structure of HFSCs and highlight the importance of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in the stability of HFSCs.

35085322
Chronic spinal cord injury functionally repaired by direct implantation of encapsulated hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells in a mouse model: Potential for clinical regenerative medicine.
Chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) is a highly debilitating and recalcitrant disease with limited treatment options. Although various stem cell types have shown some clinical efficacy for injury repair they have not for SCI. Hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells have been shown to differentiate into neurons, Schwan cells, beating cardiomyocytes and many other type of cells, and have effectively regenerated acute spinal cord injury in mouse models. In the present report, HAP stem cells from C57BL/6J mice, encapsulated in polyvinylidene fluoride membranes (PFM), were implanted into the severed thoracic spinal cord of C57BL/6J or athymic nude mice in the early chronic phase. After implantation, HAP stem cells differentiated to neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the regenerated thoracic spinal cord of C57BL/6J and nude mice. Quantitative motor function analysis, with the Basso Mouse Scale for Locomotion (BMS) score, demonstrated a significant functional improvement in the HAP-stem-cell-implanted mice, compared to non-implanted mice. HAP stem cells have critical advantages over other stem cells: they do not develop teratomas; do not loose differentiation ability when cryopreserved and thus are bankable; are autologous, readily obtained from anyone; and do not require genetic manipulation. HAP stem cells therefore have greater clinical potential for SCI repair than induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), neuronal stem cells (NSCs)/neural progenitor cells (NPCs) or embryonic stem cells (ESCs). The present report demonstrates future clinical potential of HAP-stem-cell repair of chronic spinal cord injury, currently a recalcitrant disease.

35248611
Exosomal miRNA-181a-5p from the cells of the hair follicle dermal papilla promotes the hair follicle growth and development via the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.
Exosomal miRNAs are verified critical biomarkers, which participate in several biological processes. The growth and development of the hair follicle (HF) are typically controlled by the exosomal miRNAs via cell-to-cell communication. This study identified a high expression of miR-181a-5p in the low-passage DPC-Exos (exosomes derived from dermal papilla cell), revealing the transportation patterns of the DPC-Exos-derived miR-181a-5p entering the HFSC (hair follicle stem cell). The exosomal miR-181a-5p activates the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway by targeting the Wnt inhibitor WIF1 and thereby regulates the proteins and genes related to HF growth and development. Moreover, the exosomal miR-181a-5p was found to suppress the HFSC apoptosis but promoted the HFSC proliferation. The in vitro culture of the HF organ revealed that the exosomal miR-181a-5p possesses a positive role in hair growth. Collectively, the exosomal miR-181a-5p affects the HF growth and development through the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. The exosomal miR-181a-5p might, therefore, act as the novel biomarker and therapeutic target for treating hair-related diseases and wool production in mammals.

35443150
Expression of miRNA-1-3p and its target gene in hair follicle cycle development of Liaoning Cashmere goat.
MicroRNA exerts an important regulatory role in almost all the biological process, including hair follicle development in Liaoning Cashmere goat. In order to improve the Cashmere performance of goat, the regulatory role of microRNA in hair follicle cycle has drawn hotspot attention. However, the molecular mechanisms of miRNA-1-3p involved in hair follicle development are poorly understood. In this study, we found that miRNA-1-3p was less expressed in anagen stage of hair follicle cycle of Cashmere goat than that in telogen stage by using RT-qPCR and immunoblotting analysis, in contrast to the expression pattern of FGF14. The Dual-Luciferase reporter assay was employed to verify the relationship between miRNA-1-3p and FGF14. The results showed that miRNA-1-3p specifically binds to the 3'UTR of FGF14 mRNA, and FGF14 is the target gene of miR-1-3p. In conclusion, this study shows that miRNA-1-3p may regulate hair follicle development in Liaoning Cashmere goats by targeting FGF14.

35524260
Integrated analysis of lncRNAs and mRNAs by RNA-Seq in secondary hair follicle development and cycling (anagen, catagen and telogen) of Jiangnan cashmere goat (Capra hircus).
BACKGROUND: Among the world's finest natural fiber composites is derived from the secondary hair follicles (SHFs) of cashmere goats yield one of the world's best natural fibres. Their development and cycling are characterized by photoperiodism with diverse, well-orchestrated stimulatory and inhibitory signals. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNAs) and mRNAs play important roles in hair follicle (HF) development. However, not many studies have explored their specific functions in cashmere development and cycling. This study detected mRNAs and lncRNAs with their candidate genes and related pathways in SHF development and cycling of cashmere goat. We utilized RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and bioinformatics analysis on lncRNA and mRNA expressions in goat hair follicles to discover candidate genes and metabolic pathways that could affect development and cycling (anagen, catagen, and telogen). RESULTS: We identified 228 differentially expressed (DE) mRNAs and 256 DE lncRNA. For mRNAs, catagen and anagen had 16 upregulated and 35 downregulated DEGs, catagen and telogen had 18 upregulated and 9 downregulated DEGs and telogen and anagen had 52 upregulated and 98 downregulated DEGs. LncRNA witnessed 22 upregulated and 39 downregulated DEGs for catagen and anagen, 36 upregulated and 29 downregulated DEGs for catagen and telogen as well as 66 upregulated and 97 downregulated DEGs for telogen and anagen. Several key genes, including MSTRG.5451.2, MSTRG.45465.3, MSTRG.11609.2, CHST1, SH3BP4, CDKN1A, GAREM1, GSK-3beta, DEFB103A KRTAP9-2, YAP1, S100A7A, FA2H, LOC102190037, LOC102179090, LOC102173866, KRT2, KRT39, FAM167A, FAT4 and EGFL6 were shown to be potentially important in hair follicle development and cycling. They were related to, WNT/beta-catenin, mTORC1, ERK/MAPK, Hedgehog, TGFbeta, NFkB/p38MAPK, caspase-1, and interleukin (IL)-1a signaling pathways. CONCLUSION: This work adds to existing understanding of the regulation of HF development and cycling in cashmere goats via lncRNAs and mRNAs. It also serves as theoretical foundation for future SHF research in cashmere goats.

35739197
Glucocorticoid signaling and regulatory T cells cooperate to maintain the hair-follicle stem-cell niche.
Maintenance of tissue homeostasis is dependent on the communication between stem cells and supporting cells in the same niche. Regulatory T cells (Treg cells) are emerging as a critical component of the stem-cell niche for supporting their differentiation. How Treg cells sense dynamic signals in this microenvironment and communicate with stem cells is mostly unknown. In the present study, by using hair follicles (HFs) to study Treg cell-stem cell crosstalk, we show an unrecognized function of the steroid hormone glucocorticoid in instructing skin-resident Treg cells to facilitate HF stem-cell (HFSC) activation and HF regeneration. Ablation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in Treg cells blocks hair regeneration without affecting immune homeostasis. Mechanistically, GR and Foxp3 cooperate in Treg cells to induce transforming growth factor beta3 (TGF-beta3), which activates Smad2/3 in HFSCs and facilitates HFSC proliferation. The present study identifies crosstalk between Treg cells and HFSCs mediated by the GR-TGF-beta3 axis, highlighting a possible means of manipulating Treg cells to support tissue regeneration.

35802225
Global Research Status and Trends in Hair Follicle Stem Cells: a Bibliometric Analysis.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are derived from the bulge region and are important autologous stem cell sources. Bibliometric is a statistical method that quantitatively analyses the research papers concerned about one special topic. This study aims to estimate the research status and trends of HFSCs worldwide by bibliometric analyses. METHODS: Data were obtained from the Web of Science by searching keywords related to HFSCs. Publication distributions stratified by countries/regions, institutions, journals, and authors were systematically assessed. The frequency of keywords was assessed, and bibliometric mapping was employed to describe the development of HFSC research. RESULTS: A total of 458 publications that met our screening criteria were included in this study, consisting of 423 (92.4%) articles and 35 (7.6%) reviews. The United States of America (USA) ranked first in the number of publications at 146 (31.9%), followed by China at 130 (28.4%), which is consistent with the rank of the H-index. Author keywords were classified into three clusters, namely, basic study, applied study, and biomarker; average publication time of keywords in applied study cluster is later than basic study cluster. The keywords "bulge", "nestin", and "skin" are the top three most frequent keywords in basic studies; "differentiation", "proliferation", and "alopecia" are the top three most frequent keywords in applied studies. With respect to the latest research hotspots, "apoptosis" and "tissue engineering" are relatively new keywords. CONCLUSIONS: The USA and China were the most productive countries for research on HFSCs. The focus of keywords gradually shifted from basic study to applied study. Research on the differentiation/proliferation of HFSCs and the role of HFSCs in alopecia have been recent research focuses. Apoptosis and tissue engineering are recommended as promising research hotspots. Our study provides profound insights into the research history, current status, and future trend of HFSCs.

35832407
Dual-Action Icariin-Containing Thermosensitive Hydrogel for Wound Macrophage Polarization and Hair-Follicle Neogenesis.
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway is essential for M2 macrophage polarization and hair-follicle neogenesis. Icariin, a flavonoid derived from Epimedium, is a mediator of the BMP pathway. Here, we develop a hydrogel formulation functionalized with icariin for regulation of macrophage polarization to accelerate wound healing and hair-follicle neogenesis. Compared to skin defects without icariin treatment, those treated with icariin+PEG hydrogel healed faster and had new hair follicles. Results in vivo showed that icariin+PEG hydrogel induced a higher level of M2 phenotypic transformation of macrophages. Moreover, icariin+PEG hydrogel significantly accelerated wound-repair process by reducing the invasion of inflammation, excessive deposition of collagen, immoderate activation of myofibroblasts, and increasing the regeneration of hair follicles. Furthermore, studies in vitro demonstrated that the icariin+PEG hydrogel induced macrophages to polarize to the M2 phenotype and dermal papilla cell to hair follicles. Finally, molecular analysis demonstrated that the icariin+PEG hydrogel increased the expression of BMP4 and Smad1/5 phosphorylation in skin wounds. These results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of icariin-containing thermosensitive hydrogels for inducing M2 macrophage polarization to accelerate wound healing and promote hair-follicle neogenesis by regulating the BMP pathway.

35866189
3D printing of skin equivalents with hair follicle structures and epidermal-papillary-dermal layers using gelatin/hyaluronic acid hydrogels.
Recent advances in three-dimensional (3D) bioprinting technologies enabled the fabrication of sophisticated live 3D tissue analogs. Although various hydrogel-based bioink has been reported, the development of advanced bioink materials that can reproduce the composition of native extracellular matrix (ECM) accurately and mimic the intrinsic property of laden cells is still challenging. In this work, 3D printed skin equivalents incorporating hair follicle structures and epidermal-papillary-dermal layers are fabricated with gelatin methacryloyl (GelMA)/hyaluronic acid (HA) MA (HAMA) hydrogel (GelMA/HAMA) bioink. The composition of collagen and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) of native skin was recapitulated by adjusting the combination of GelMA and HAMA. The GelMA/HAMA bioink was proven to have excellent viscoelastic and physicochemical properties, 3D printability, cytocompatibility, and functionality to maintain the hair inductive potency and facilitated spontaneous hair pore development. Overall, we suggest that the GelMA/HAMA hydrogels can be promising candidates as bioinks for the 3D printing of skin equivalents with epidermal-papillary-dermal multi-layers and hair follicle structures, and they might serve as a useful model in skin tissue engineering and regeneration.

36077403
Comprehensive Transcriptome Analysis of Hair Follicle Morphogenesis Reveals That lncRNA-H19 Promotes Dermal Papilla Cell Proliferation through the Chi-miR-214-3p/beta-Catenin Axis in Cashmere Goats.
Cashmere is initiated and develops in the fetal stages and the number and density of secondary hair follicles (SHFs) determine cashmere production and quality. Growing evidence indicates that both microRNA (miRNA) and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) play an indispensable role in hair follicle (HF) growth and development. However, little is known about miRNAs, lncRNAs, and their functions as well as their interactions during cashmere initiation and development. Here, based on lncRNA and miRNA high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatics analysis, we identified 10,485 lncRNAs, 40,639 mRNAs, and 605 miRNAs in cashmere goat skin during HF induction, organogenesis, and cytodifferentiation stages. Among them, 521 lncRNAs, 5976 genes, and 204 miRNAs were differentially expressed (DE). KEGG analysis of DE genes indicated that ECM-receptor interaction and biosynthesis of amino acids were crucial for HF development. Notch, TGF-beta, and Wnt signaling pathways were also identified, which are conventional pathways associated with HF growth and development. Then, the ceRNA regulatory network was constructed, and the impact of lncRNA H19 was investigated in dermal papilla (DP) cells. The MTT, CCK-8, and EdU assays showed that the viability and proliferation of DP cells were promoted by H19, and mechanistic studies suggested that H19 performed its function through the chi-miR-214-3p/beta-catenin axis. The present study created a resource for lncRNA, miRNA, and mRNA studies in cashmere morphogenesis. It could contribute to a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of ncRNAs involved in the regulation of HF growth and development.

36089203
Homeostases of epidermis and hair follicle, and development of basal cell carcinoma.
Hedgehog signaling (Hh) plays a critical role in embryogenesis. On the other hand, its overactivity may cause basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common human cancer. Further, epidermal and hair follicle homeostases may have a key role in the development of BCC. This article describes the importance of different signaling pathways in the different stages of the two processes. The description of the homeostases brought up the importance of the Notch signaling along with the sonic hedgehog (Shh) and the Wnt pathways. Loss of the Notch signaling adversely affects the late stages of hair follicle formation and allows the bulge cells in the hair follicles to take the fate of the keratinocytes in the interfollicular epidermis. Further, the loss of Notch activity upregulates the Shh and Wnt activities, adversely affecting the homeostases. Notably, the Notch signaling is suppressed in BCC, and the peripheral BCC cells, which have low Notch activity, show drug resistance in comparison to the interior suprabasal BCC cells, which have high Notch activity.

24750467
Modulating hair follicle size with Wnt10b/DKK1 during hair regeneration.
Hair follicles have characteristic sizes corresponding to their cycle-specific stage. However, how the anagen hair follicle specifies its size remains elusive. Here, we showed that in response to prolonged ectopic Wnt10b-mediated beta-catenin activation, regenerating anagen hair follicles grew larger in size. In particular, the hair bulb, dermal papilla and hair shaft became enlarged, while the formation of different hair types (Guard, Awl, Auchene and Zigzag) was unaffected. Interestingly, we found that the effect of exogenous WNT10b was mainly on Zigzag and less on the other kinds of hairs. We observed dramatically enhanced proliferation within the matrix, DP and hair shaft of the enlarged AdWnt10b-treated hair follicles compared with those of normal hair follicles at P98. Furthermore, expression of CD34, a specific hair stem cell marker, was increased in its number to the bulge region after AdWnt10b treatment. Ectopic expression of CD34 throughout the ORS region was also observed. Many CD34-positive hair stem cells were actively proliferating in AdWnt10b-induced hair follicles. Importantly, subsequent co-treatment with the Wnt inhibitor, DKK1, reduced hair follicle enlargement and decreased proliferation and ectopic localization of hair stem cells. Moreover, injection of DKK1 during early anagen significantly reduced the width of prospective hairs. Together, these findings strongly suggest that Wnt10b/DKK1 can modulate hair follicle size during hair regeneration.

25066054
Reflections on how wound healing-promoting effects of the hair follicle can be translated into clinical practice.
Clinicians have long reported that hair-bearing areas tend to heal more rapidly than those lacking hair follicles. In the past decade, numerous scientific studies have corroborated clinical evidence, showing a direct nexus between the human hair follicle and the wound healing process. The migration of epithelial follicular stem cells to the skin surface to help in the wound re-epithelialization and the effect of the hair cycle on the wound healing rate underline the influence of the hair follicle in the healing process. In clinical practice, non-healing wounds are pathologies of high prevalence with significant associated burden costs for the healthcare system. As the population ages, the prevalence of this pathology is expected to increase in future years. The recent advances in understanding the biology of hair follicle stem cells have created the challenges of using this newly acquired knowledge in practical therapeutic applications. Chronic leg ulcers are an example of the targeted pathologies that urgently need better therapies. In this essay, our aim is to raise interest in this question, reviewing what is known in relation to the connections between hair follicles and wound healing, and elaborating on future directions that the field might take, including implications for clinical practice. 

25465495
Hair follicle dermal stem cells regenerate the dermal sheath, repopulate the dermal papilla, and modulate hair type.
The dermal papilla (DP) provide instructive signals required to activate epithelial progenitors and initiate hair follicle regeneration. DP cell numbers fluctuate over the hair cycle, and hair loss is associated with gradual depletion/atrophy of DP cells. How DP cell numbers are maintained in healthy follicles remains unclear. We performed in vivo fate mapping of adult hair follicle dermal sheath (DS) cells to determine their lineage relationship with DP and found that a subset of DS cells are retained following each hair cycle, exhibit self-renewal, and repopulate the DS and the DP with new cells. Ablating these hair follicle dermal stem cells and their progeny retarded hair regrowth and altered hair type specification, suggesting that they function to modulate normal DP function. This work identifies a bipotent stem cell within the adult hair follicle mesenchyme and has important implications toward restoration of hair growth after injury, disease, and aging.

25623661
A simple and rapid model for hair-follicle regeneration in the nude mouse.
BACKGROUND: Methods for hair-follicle regeneration are important tools for investigating signalling and cytokines during hair-follicle morphogenesis and cycling. Several animal models for hair reconstitution have been established; however, these models have several shortcomings. AIM: To develop a simple and rapid model for hair induction in nude mouse. METHODS: We designed an improved flap model (IFM) for hair regeneration based on the existing flap assay. Histological sections and scanning electron microscopy were used to evaluate the regenerated hair. The fates of grafted cells were traced by fluorescence. The time required for hair induction was analysed and compared. RESULTS: IFM produced a large number of normal hairs, and the time required for hair induction using IFM was 20.67 +- 0.67 days, compared with 29.33 +- 0.67 days for the traditional flap assay. CONCLUSIONS: The time required for hair regeneration is considerably shortened with IFM. We speculate that this is due to increased blood supply at the transplantation sites.

25743086
Cryopreservation of the Hair Follicle Maintains Pluripotency of Nestin-Expressing Hair Follicle-Associated Pluripotent Stem Cells.
Hair follicles contain nestin-expressing pluripotent stem cells, the origin of which is above the bulge area, below the sebaceous gland. We have termed these cells hair follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells. In the present study, we established efficient cryopreservation methods of the hair follicle that maintained the pluripotency of HAP stem cells. We cryopreserved the whole hair follicle from green fluorescent protein transgenic mice by slow-rate cooling in TC-Protector medium and storage in liquid nitrogen. After thawing, the upper part of the hair follicle was isolated and cultured in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM) with fetal bovine serum (FBS). After 4 weeks of culture, cells from the upper part of the hair follicle grew out. The growing cells were transferred to DMEM/F12 without FBS. After 1 week of culture, the growing cells formed hair spheres, each containing ~1x10(2) HAP stem cells. The hair spheres contained cells that differentiated to neurons, glial cells, and other cell types. The thawed and cultured upper part of the hair follicle produced almost as many pluripotent hair spheres as fresh follicles. The hair spheres derived from slow-cooling cryopreserved hair follicles were as pluripotent as hair spheres from fresh hair follicles. In contrast, rapid-cooling (vitrification) cryopreservation poorly preserved the pluripotency of the hair follicle stem cells. Stem cell marker genes (nestin, Sox2, and SSEA-1) were as highly expressed in slow-rate cooled cryopreserved follicles, after thawing, as in fresh follicles. However, in the vitrification cryopreserved follicles, the expression of the stem cell marker genes was greatly reduced. Direct cryopreservation of hair spheres by either the rapid-cooling, or slow-cooling method, resulted in loss of pluripotency. These results suggest that the slow-rate cooling cryopreservation of the whole hair follicle is effective to store HAP stem cells. Stored HAP stem cells would be very useful in personalized regenerative medicine, enabling any individual to maintain a bank of pluripotent stem cells for future clinical use. 

25939713
RBM28, a protein deficient in ANE syndrome, regulates hair follicle growth via miR-203 and p63.
Alopecia-neurological defects-endocrinopathy (ANE) syndrome is a rare inherited hair disorder, which was shown to result from decreased expression of the RNA-binding motif protein 28 (RBM28). In this study, we attempted to delineate the role of RBM28 in hair biology. First, we sought to obtain evidence for the direct involvement of RBM28 in hair growth. When RBM28 was downregulated in human hair follicle (HF) organ cultures, we observed catagen induction and HF growth arrest, indicating that RBM28 is necessary for normal hair growth. We also aimed at identifying molecular targets of RBM28. Given that an RBM28 homologue was recently found to regulate miRNA biogenesis in C. elegans and given the known pivotal importance of miRNAs for proper hair follicle development, we studied global miRNA expression profile in cells knocked down for RBM28. This analysis revealed that RBM28 controls the expression of miR-203. miR-203 was found to regulate in turn TP63, encoding the transcription factor p63, which is critical for hair morphogenesis. In conclusion, RBM28 contributes to HF growth regulation through modulation of miR-203 and p63 activity.

25955842
In vivo Quantification of the Effects of Radiation and Presence of Hair Follicle Pores on the Proliferation of Fibroblasts in an Acellular Human Dermis in a Dorsal Skinfold Chamber: Relevance for Tissue Reconstruction following Neoadjuvant Therapy.
INTRODUCTION: In neoadjuvant therapy, irradiation has a deleterious effect on neoangiogenesis. The aim of this study was to examine the post-implantation effects of neoadjuvant irradiation on the survival and proliferation of autologous cells seeded onto an acellular human dermis (hAD; Epiflex). Additionally, we examined the influence of dermal hair follicle pores on viability and proliferation. We used dorsal skinfold chambers implanted in rats and in-situ microscopy to quantify cell numbers over 9 days. METHODS: 24 rats received a skinfold chamber and were divided into 2 main groups; irradiated and unirradiated. In the irradiated groups 20Gy were applied epicutaneously at the dorsum. Epiflex pieces were cut to size 5x5mm such that each piece had either one or more visible hair follicle pores, or no such visible pores. Fibroblasts were transduced lentiviral with a fluorescent protein for cell tracking. Matrices were seeded statically with 2.5x104 fluorescent fibroblasts and implanted into the chambers. In each of the two main groups, half of the rats received Epiflex with hair follicle pores and half received Epiflex without pores. Scaffolds were examined in-situ at 0, 3, 6 and 9 days after transplantation. Visible cells on the surface were quantified using ImageJ. RESULTS: In all groups cell numbers were decreased on day 3. A treatment-dependent increase in cell numbers was observed at subsequent time points. Irradiation had an adverse effect on cell survival and proliferation. The number of cells detected in both irradiated and non-irradiated subjects was increased in those subjects that received transplants with hair follicle pores. DISCUSSION: This in-vivo study confirms that radiation negatively affects the survival and proliferation of fibroblasts seeded onto a human dermis transplant. The presence of hair follicle pores in the dermis transplants is shown to have a positive effect on cell survival and proliferation even in irradiated subjects.

25970547
From hair to heart: nestin-expressing hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells differentiate to beating cardiac muscle cells.
We have previously demonstrated that the neural stem-cell marker nestin is expressed in hair follicle stem cells located in the bulge area which are termed hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells. HAP stem cells from mouse and human could form spheres in culture, termed hair spheres, which are keratin 15-negative and CD34-positive and could differentiate to neurons, glia, keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells, and melanocytes in vitro. Subsequently, we demonstrated that nestin-expressing stem cells could effect nerve and spinal cord regeneration in mouse models. In the present study, we demonstrated that HAP stem cells differentiated to beating cardiac muscle cells. We separated the mouse vibrissa hair follicle into 3 parts (upper, middle, and lower), and suspended each part separately in DMEM containing 10% FBS. All three parts of hair follicle differentiated to beating cardiac muscle cells as well as neurons, glial cells, keratinocytes and smooth muscle cells. The differentiation potential to cardiac muscle is greatest in the upper part of the follicle. The beat rate of the cardiac muscle cells was stimulated by isoproterenol and inhibited by propanolol. HAP stem cells have potential for regenerative medicine for heart disease as well as nerve and spinal cord repair.

26023097
Intraflagellar transport 27 is essential for hedgehog signaling but dispensable for ciliogenesis during hair follicle morphogenesis.
Hair follicle morphogenesis requires precisely controlled reciprocal communications, including hedgehog (Hh) signaling. Activation of the Hh signaling pathway relies on the primary cilium. Disrupting ciliogenesis results in hair follicle morphogenesis defects due to attenuated Hh signaling; however, the loss of cilia makes it impossible to determine whether hair follicle phenotypes in these cilia mutants are caused by the loss of cilia, disruption of Hh signaling, or a combination of these events. In this study, we characterized the function of Ift27, which encodes a subunit of intraflagellar transport (IFT) complex B. Hair follicle morphogenesis of Ift27-null mice was severely impaired, reminiscent of phenotypes observed in cilia and Hh mutants. Furthermore, the Hh signaling pathway was attenuated in Ift27 mutants, which was in association with abnormal ciliary trafficking of SMO and GLI2, and impaired processing of Gli transcription factors; however, formation of the ciliary axoneme was unaffected. The ciliary localization of IFT25 (HSPB11), the binding partner of IFT27, was disrupted in Ift27 mutant cells, and Ift25-null mice displayed hair follicle phenotypes similar to those of Ift27 mutants. These data suggest that Ift27 and Ift25 operate in a genetically and functionally dependent manner during hair follicle morphogenesis. This study suggests that the molecular trafficking machineries underlying ciliogenesis and Hh signaling can be segregated, thereby providing important insights into new avenues of inhibiting Hh signaling, which might be adopted in the development of targeted therapies for Hh-dependent cancers, such as basal cell carcinoma. 

26653852
Embryonic attenuated Wnt/beta-catenin signaling defines niche location and long-term stem cell fate in hair follicle.
Long-term adult stem cells sustain tissue regeneration throughout the lifetime of an organism. They were hypothesized to originate from embryonic progenitor cells that acquire long-term self-renewal ability and multipotency at the end of organogenesis. The process through which this is achieved often remains unclear. Here, we discovered that long-term hair follicle stem cells arise from embryonic progenitor cells occupying a niche location that is defined by attenuated Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Hair follicle initiation is marked by placode formation, which depends on the activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Soon afterwards, a region with attenuated Wnt/beta-catenin signaling emerges in the upper follicle. Embryonic progenitor cells residing in this region gain expression of adult stem cell markers and become definitive long-term hair follicle stem cells at the end of organogenesis. Attenuation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is a prerequisite for hair follicle stem cell specification because it suppresses Sox9, which is required for stem cell formation. 

26886167
Surface Tension Guided Hanging-Drop: Producing Controllable 3D Spheroid of High-Passaged Human Dermal Papilla Cells and Forming Inductive Microtissues for Hair-Follicle Regeneration.
Human dermal papilla (DP) cells have been studied extensively when grown in the conventional monolayer. However, because of great deviation from the real in vivo three-dimensional (3D) environment, these two-dimensional (2D) grown cells tend to lose the hair-inducible capability during passaging. Hence, these 2D caused concerns have motivated the development of novel 3D culture techniques to produce cellular microtissues with suitable mimics. The hanging-drop approach is based on surface tension-based technique and the interaction between surface tension and gravity field that makes a convergence of liquid drops. This study used this technique in a converged drop to form cellular spheroids of dermal papilla cells. It leads to a controllable 3Dspheroid model for scalable fabrication of inductive DP microtissues. The optimal conditions for culturing high-passaged (P8) DP spheroids were determined first. Then, the morphological, histological and functional studies were performed. In addition, expressions of hair-inductive markers including alkaline phosphatase, alpha-smooth muscle actin and neural cell adhesion molecule were also analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR, immunostaining and immunoblotting. Finally, P8-DP microtissues were coimplanted with newborn mouse epidermal cells (EPCs) into nude mice. Our results indicated that the formation of 3D microtissues not only endowed P8-DP microtissues many similarities to primary DP, but also confer these microtissues an enhanced ability to induce hair-follicle (HF) neogenesis in vivo. This model provides a potential to elucidate the native biology of human DP, and also shows the promising for the controllable and scalable production of inductive DP cells applied in future follicle regeneration. 

27094702
A primer for studying cell cycle dynamics of the human hair follicle.
The cell cycle is of major importance to human hair follicle (HF) biology. Not only is continuously active cell cycling required to facilitate healthy hair growth in anagen VI HFs, but perturbations in the cell cycle are likely to be of significance in HF pathology (i.e. in scarring, non-scarring, chemotherapy-induced and androgenic alopecias). However, cell cycle dynamics of the human hair follicle (HF) are poorly understood in contrast to what is known in mouse. The current Methods Review aims at helping to close this gap by presenting a primer that introduces immunohistological/immunofluorescent techniques to study the cell cycle in the human HF. Moreover, this primer encourages the exploitation of the human HF as a powerful and clinically relevant tool to investigate mammalian cell cycle biology in situ. To achieve this, we describe methods to study markers of general 'proliferation' (nuclei count, Ki-67 expression), apoptosis (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labelling, cleaved caspase 3), mitosis (phospho-histone H3, 'pS780'), DNA synthesis (5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine) and cell cycle regulation (cyclins) in the human HF. In addition, we provide specific examples of dual immunolabelling for instructive cell cycle analyses and for investigating the cell cycle behaviour of specific HF keratinocyte subpopulations, such as keratin 15+ stem/progenitor cells.

27109869
Activating Hair Follicle Stem Cells via R-spondin2 to Stimulate Hair Growth.
Wnt signaling is required for the development of the hair follicle, and for inciting the growth (anagen) phase of the hair cycle. Most strategies to enhance Wnt signaling for hair growth create a state of constitutive Wnt activation, which leads to neoplastic transformation of the epithelial hair matrix. Using Axin2(LacZ/+) and Axin2(Cre/+)R26R(mTmG/+) reporter mice and RNA analyses, we show that Wnt signaling is elevated during anagen, is reduced at the onset of catagen, and can be reamplified in the skin and surrounding hair follicles via intradermal injection of recombinant R-spondin2 protein. Using Lgr5(LacZ/+) reporter mice, we demonstrate that this amplified Wnt environment leads to activation of leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5-positive stem cells in the hair follicle. The onset of catagen is repressed by R-spondin2 injection, and the anagen phase persists. As a consequence, hair shafts grow longer. We conclude that R-spondin2 treatment activates hair follicle stem cells and therefore may have therapeutic potential to promote hair growth.

27302156
Expansion of Hair Follicle Stem Cells Sticking to Isolated Sebaceous Glands to Generate in Vivo Epidermal Structures.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are considered one of the useful donor cell types for skin regenerative medicine owing to their robust proliferative capacity and multipotency. However, methods for easily and effectively obtaining HFSCs from a limited skin biopsy are still lacking. Here we report a novel approach for obtaining a subpopulation of HFSCs from a small skin sample from the rat tail, which uses the sebaceous glands (SGs) to capture the adjacent HFSCs. By means of organ culture, keratinocytes were expanded from the detached SGs, which also included adherent HFSCs from the hair follicle that could be passaged at the single-cell level. These SG-captured keratinocytes strongly expressed the basal layer markers K14, integrin alpha6, and p63; the bulge stem cell marker K15; and the upper isthmus stem cell marker Plet1. Furthermore, we reconstituted new epidermis, hair follicles, and SGs from the SG-captured keratinocytes using an easily operated, modified skin reconstitution assay based on silicone gel sheeting. This study suggests that the SGs could be an accessible capturer to harvest the adjacent HFSC subpopulation, particularly when the donor tissue is limited.

27377695
Effects of Imiquimod on Hair Follicle Stem Cells and Hair Cycle Progression.
Topical imiquimod (IMQ) application is widely used as a model for psoriasiform-like skin inflammation in mice. Although the effects on the epidermis are well characterized, it is unclear how IMQ affects hair follicles and cycling. Here we investigated how IMQ affects hair follicle stem cells and whether the timing of IMQ application influences the immune infiltrate. Our results show that IMQ application at mid and late telogen activated hair follicle stem cells leading to premature hair cycle entry (anagen), which was accompanied by massive infiltration of inflammatory macrophages and gamma delta T cells, whereas the number of the respective resident populations decreased. Interestingly, high resident macrophage numbers were present in Rag2-/- mice and were maintained after IMQ treatment explaining why IMQ-induced anagen was reduced. This could be rescued after macrophage depletion suggesting that resident macrophages inhibit whereas inflammatory infiltrating macrophages stimulate hair follicle stem cell activation. The expression of the anagen-inhibiting factor BMP-4 was reduced by IMQ treatment as well as the activating factors Wnt showing that IMQ-induced hair follicle stem cell activation occurs by a Wnt-independent mechanism involving inflammatory cytokines such as CCL2 and TNF-alpha. On the basis of our findings, we recommend conducting experiments with IMQ during mid and late telogen as the biggest differences in immune cell composition are observed.

27411280
[CO-TRANSPLANTATION OF MOUSE EPIDERMIS AND DERMIS CELLS IN INDUCING HAIR FOLLICLE REGENERATION].
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the co-transplantation of C57-green fluorescent protein (GFP) mouse epidermis and dermis cells subcutaneously to induce the hair follicle regeneration. METHODS: C57-GFP mouse epidermis and dermis were harvested for isolation the mouse epidermis and dermis cells. The morphology of epidermis and dermis mixed cells at ratio of 1:1 of adult mouse, dermis cells of adult mouse, cultured 3rd generation dermis cells were observed by fluorescence microscope. Immunocytochemistry staining was used to detect hair follicle stem cells markers in cultured 3rd generation dermis cells from new born C57-GFP mouse. And then the epidermis and dermis mixed cells of adult mouse (group A), dermis cells of adult mouse (group B), cultured 3rd generation dermis cells of new born mouse (group C), and saline (group D) were transplanted subcutaneously into Balb/c nude mice. The skin surface of nude mice were observed at 4, 5, 6 weeks of transplantation and hair follicle formation were detected at 6 weeks by immunohistochemistry staining. RESULTS: The isolated C57-GFP mouse epidermis and dermis cells strongly expressed the GFP under the fluorescence microscope. Immunocytochemistry staining for hair follicle stem cells markers in cultured 3rd generation dermis cells showed strong expression of Vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin, indicating that the cells were dermal sheath cells; some cells expressed CD133, Versican, and cytokeratin 15. After transplanted for 4-6 weeks, the skin became black at the injection site in group A, indicating new hair follicle formation. However, no color change was observed in groups B, C, and D. Immunohistochemical staining showed that new complete hair follicles structures formed in group A. GFP expression could be only observed in the hair follicle dermal sheath and outer root sheath in group B, and it could also be observed in the hair follicle dermal sheath, outer root sheath, dermal papilla cells, and sweat gland in group C. The expression of GFP was negative in group D. CONCLUSION: Co-transplantation of mouse epidermis and dermis cells can induce the hair follicle regeneration by means of interaction of each other. And transplantation of isolated dermis cells or cultured dermis cells individually only partly involved in the hair follicles formation.

27431247
Isolation of Mouse Hair Follicle Bulge Stem Cells and Their Functional Analysis in a Reconstitution Assay.
The hair follicle (HF) is a dynamic structure readily accessible within the skin, and contains various pools of stem cells that have a broad regenerative potential during normal homeostasis and in response to injury. Recent discoveries demonstrating the multipotent capabilities of hair follicle stem cells and the easy access to skin tissue make the HF an attractive source for isolating stem cells and their subsequent application in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Here, we describe the isolation and purification of hair follicle bulge stem cells from mouse skin, and hair reconstitution assays that allows the functional analysis of multipotent stem cells.

27431255
Protocols for Efficient Differentiation of Hair Follicle-Associated Pluripotent (HAP) Stem Cells to Beating Cardiac Muscle Cells.
We have previously demonstrated that the nestin-expressing cells from the upper part of the hair follicle can differentiate to neurons and other cell types. We have termed these cells as hair-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells. In the present chapter, we describe methods for HAP stem cells to differentiate to beating cardiac muscle cells. The mouse vibrissa hair follicle was divided into three parts (upper, middle, and lower), and each part was suspended separately in DMEM containing 10 % fetal bovine serum (FBS). All three parts of hair follicle differentiate to neurons, glial cells, keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells, and cardiac muscle cells. The differentiation potential to cardiac muscle is greatest in the upper part of the follicle. Hair spheres comprised of HAP stem cells formed from the upper part of vibrissa hair follicle can differentiate to cardiac muscle cells.

27458264
Hair Follicle and Sebaceous Gland De Novo Regeneration With Cultured Epidermal Stem Cells and Skin-Derived Precursors.
: Stem cell-based organ regeneration is purported to enable the replacement of impaired organs in the foreseeable future. Here, we demonstrated that a combination of cultured epidermal stem cells (Epi-SCs) derived from the epidermis and skin-derived precursors (SKPs) was capable of reconstituting functional hair follicles and sebaceous glands (SG). When Epi-SCs and SKPs were mixed in a hydrogel and implanted into an excisional wound in nude mice, the Epi-SCs formed de novo epidermis along with hair follicles, and SKPs contributed to dermal papilla in the neogenic hair follicles. Notably, a combination of culture-expanded Epi-SCs and SKPs derived from the adult human scalp were sufficient to generate hair follicles and hair. Bone morphogenetic protein 4, but not Wnts, sustained the expression of alkaline phosphatase in SKPs in vitro and the hair follicle-inductive property in vivo when SKPs were engrafted with neonatal epidermal cells into excisional wounds. In addition, Epi-SCs were capable of differentiating into sebocytes and formed de novo SGs, which excreted lipids as do normal SGs. Thus our results indicate that cultured Epi-SCs and SKPs are sufficient to generate de novo hair follicles and SGs, implying great potential to develop novel bioengineered skin substitutes with appendage genesis capacity. SIGNIFICANCE: In postpartum humans, skin appendages lost in injury are not regenerated, despite the considerable achievement made in skin bioengineering. In this study, transplantation of a combination of culture-expanded epidermal stem cells and skin-derived progenitors from mice and adult humans led to de novo regeneration of functional hair follicles and sebaceous glands. The data provide transferable knowledge for the development of novel bioengineered skin substitutes with epidermal appendage regeneration capacity.

27499692
Wnt5a Suppresses beta-catenin Signaling during Hair Follicle Regeneration.
Hair follicles display periodic growth. Wnt signaling is a critical regulator for hair follicle regeneration. Previously, we reported that Wnt5a inhibits the telogen-to-anagen transition of hair follicles, but the mechanism by which this process occurs has not yet been reported. Here, we determined the expression patterns of Wnt signaling pathway molecules by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunohistochemistry and found that beta-catenin signaling was suppressed by Wnt5a. We then compared the phenotypes and expression patterns following beta-catenin knockdown and Wnt5a overexpression during hair follicle regeneration induced by hair depilation and observed similar patterns. In addition, we performed a rescue experiment in the JB6 cell line and found that the inhibitory effect of Wnt5a on cell proliferation could be rescued by the addition of Wnt3a. Our data reveal that Wnt5a suppresses the activation of beta-catenin signaling during hair follicle regeneration. 

27692164
Hair follicle characteristics as early marker of Type 2 Diabetes.
Type 2 Diabetes mellitus (DM2) includes a continuum of metabolic disorders characterized by hyperglycemia that causes several chronic long-term complications such as coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, nephropathy, and neuropathy. The hair follicle could reveal signs of early vascular impairment, yet its relationship to early metabolic injuries has been largely ignored. We propose that in earlier stages of the continuum of DM2-related metabolic disorders, a group of susceptible patients who do not yet meet the diagnostic criteria to be considered as persons with DM2 may present chronic vascular impairment and end organ damage, including hair follicle damage, which can be evaluated to identify an early risk marker. This hypothesis is based in the association found between insulin resistance and alopecia in non-diabetic persons, and the hair loss on the lower limbs as a manifestation of long-term peripheral arterial disease among subjects with DM2. In order to test this hypothesis, studies are required to evaluate if hair follicle characteristics are related to and can predict hyperglycemic complications, and if they do so, which feature of the hair follicle, such as hair growth, best characterizes such DM2-related conditions. If this hypothesis were proven to be true, significant advances towards a personalized approach for early prevention strategies and management of DM2 would be made. By focusing on the hair follicles, early stages of metabolic-related organ damage could be identified using non-invasive low-cost techniques. In so doing, this approach could provide early identification of DM2-susceptible individuals and lead to the early initiation of adequate primary prevention strategies to reduce or avoid the onset of large internal organ damage.

28211089
Icariin promotes mouse hair follicle growth by increasing insulin-like growth factor 1 expression in dermal papillary cells.
BACKGROUND: Icariin is a major flavonoid isolated from Epimedium spp. leaves (Epimedium Herba), and has multiple pharmacological functions, including anti-angiogenesis, anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and immunoprotective effects. AIM: To investigate whether icariin can stimulate growth of hair follicles in mice and the underlying mechanism. METHODS: In vitro, the effect of icariin on hair growth was assessed by using a vibrissae hair follicle (VHF) organ-culture model. The proliferation of hair matrix keratinocytes and the expression of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 in follicles were examined by double immunostaining for 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and IGF-1, in the presence or absence of icariin. Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) were cultured and IGF-1 level was measured by reverse transcription-PCR and ELISA after icariin treatment. In vivo, the effect of icariin on hair growth was examined by gavage feeding of icariin to mice whose backs had been depilated, and the conversion of telogen to anagen hair was observed. RESULTS: Treatment with icariin promoted hair shaft elongation, prolonged the hair cycle growth phase (anagen) in cultured VHFs, and accelerated transition of hair cycle from telogen to anagen phase in the dorsal skin of mice. There was significant proliferation of matrix keratinocytes and an increased level of IGF-1 in cultured VHFs. Moreover, icariin treatment upregulated IGF-1 mRNA expression in DPCs and increased IGF-1 protein content in the conditioned medium of DPCs. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that icariin can promote mouse hair follicle growth via stimulation of IGF-1 expression in DPCs.

28326861
Cutaneous applied nano-ZnO reduce the ability of hair follicle stem cells to differentiate.
The ability of metal oxide nanoparticles to penetrate the skin has aroused a great deal of interest during the past decade due to concerns over the safety of topically applied sunscreens that contain physical UV-resistant metal particles, such as nano-Zinc oxide (nZnO). Previous studies demonstrate that metal oxide nanoparticles accumulate in skin furrows and hair follicles following topical application while little is known about the consequence of these nanoparticles on skin homeostasis. The current investigation tested the effects of nZnO (0.5 mg/day mouse) on hair follicle physiology. Topical application of Vaseline containing nZnO, bulk ZnO (bZnO), or ionized Zn to newborn mice vibrissa pad over a period of 7 consecutive days revealed that nZnO accumulated within hair follicles, and this induced the apoptosis of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). In vitro studies also indicated that nZnO exposure caused obvious DNA damage and induced apoptosis in HFSCs. Furthermore, it was found that nZnO exposure perturbed genes associated with HFSC apoptosis, cell communication, and differentiation. HFSCs transplantation assay demonstrated that the potential of HFSCs to differentiate was reduced. This investigation indicates a potential risk of topically applied ZnO nanoparticles on skin homeostasis.

28361314
Functional Hair Follicle Regeneration by the Rearrangement of Stem Cells.
Hair follicles develop from the ectoderm in embryos and cyclically regenerate using proper spatiotemporal signaling molecules, which are conserved in organogenesis during adulthood. Previously, we demonstrated that bioengineered hair follicle germs could regenerate functional hair follicles via a three-dimensional cell manipulation technique, which we named the "organ germ method ." We could also regulate the type of hair follicle and pigmentation with correct structures by rearranging the source of the cells. In this article, we describe a detailed protocol for the regeneration of functional hair follicles and their stem cell niches by the rearrangement of embryonic or adult hair follicle-derived epithelial and mesenchymal cells.

28413121
Characterisation of cell cycle arrest and terminal differentiation in a maximally proliferative human epithelial tissue: Lessons from the human hair follicle matrix.
Human hair follicle (HF) growth and hair shaft formation require terminal differentiation-associated cell cycle arrest of highly proliferative matrix keratinocytes. However, the regulation of this complex event remains unknown. CIP/KIP family member proteins (p21CIP1, p27KIP1 and p57KIP2) regulate cell cycle progression/arrest, endoreplication, differentiation and apoptosis. Since they have not yet been adequately characterized in the human HF, we asked whether and where CIP/KIP proteins localise in the human hair matrix and pre-cortex in relation to cell cycle activity and HF-specific epithelial cell differentiation that is marked by keratin 85 (K85) protein expression. K85 expression coincided with loss or reduction in cell cycle activity markers, including in situ DNA synthesis (EdU incorporation), Ki-67, phospho-histone H3 and cyclins A and B1, affirming a post-mitotic state of pre-cortical HF keratinocytes. Expression of CIP/KIP proteins was found abundantly within the proliferative hair matrix, concomitant with a role in cell cycle checkpoint control. p21CIP1, p27KIP1 and cyclin E persisted within post-mitotic keratinocytes of the pre-cortex, whereas p57KIP2 protein decreased but became nuclear. These data imply a supportive role for CIP/KIP proteins in maintaining proliferative arrest, differentiation and anti-apoptotic pathways, promoting continuous hair bulb growth and hair shaft formation in anagen VI. Moreover, post-mitotic hair matrix regions contained cells with enlarged nuclei, and DNA in situ hybridisation showed cells that were >2N in the pre-cortex. This suggests that CIP/KIP proteins might counterbalance cyclin E to control further rounds of DNA replication in a cell population that has a propensity to become tetraploid. These data shed new light on the in situ-biography of human hair matrix keratinocytes on their path of active cell cycling, arrest and terminal differentiation, and showcase the human HF as an excellent, clinically relevant model system for cell cycle physiology research of human epithelial cells within their natural tissue habitat.

28513105
Hair follicle specific ACVR1/ALK2 critically affects skin morphogenesis and attenuates wound healing.
The bone morphogenic protein signaling (BMP) is intricately involved in the quiescence and regulation of stem cells through activation of BMP receptors. Hair follicle stem cells play a critical role in cutaneous homeostasis and regeneration. Here, we utilize a novel mouse model with targeted overexpression of the BMP receptor ALK2/ACVR1 in hair follicle stem cells, to characterize its role in skin development and postnatal wound healing. Initial histologic evaluation demonstrated significant dysregulation in hair follicle morphogenesis in mutant mice. These demonstrated increased numbers of individual hair follicles with altered morphology and localization. Mutant follicles were found to exhibit elevated proliferative activity as well as increased prevalence of CD34 and ITGA6 positive follicle stem cells. Interestingly, constitutive overexpression of ALK2 resulted in attenuation of cutaneous wound healing. These findings demonstrate that hair follicle specific ALK2 is intricately involved in maintenance of the stem cell niche and wound healing.

28599846
Planar cell polarity-dependent and independent functions in the emergence of tissue-scale hair follicle patterns.
Hair follicles of the mammalian epidermis display local order and global alignment, a complex pattern instructed by the core planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway. Here we address the contributions of core PCP genes, Van Gogh-like and Frizzled, to the establishment, local refinement, and global order of embryonic and postnatal hair follicles. We find that, similar to Fz6 mutants, the disordered hair patterns of Vangl2 mutants are refined over time and eventually corrected. In both mutants, we find that tissue-level reorientation occurs through locally coordinated follicle rotation at stereotyped locations. Strikingly, Vangl2 and Fz6 mutant follicles collectively rotate with opposing directionalities, suggesting that redundant core PCP signals contribute to their directed realignment. Consistently, global follicle alignment is not restored upon conditional ablation of both Vangl1 and Vangl2 genes. Instead, spatially distinct patterns of whorls and crosses emerge and persist even after a complete cycle of hair follicle regeneration. Thus, local refinement of hair follicles into higher order patterns can occur independently of the core PCP system, however, their global alignment with the body axes requires PCP function throughout morphogenesis, growth and regeneration.

28614369
Unlocking the vital role of host cells in hair follicle reconstruction by semi-permeable capsules.
Organ regeneration is becoming a promising choice for many patients; however, many details about the mechanisms underlying organ regeneration remain unknown. As regenerative organs, hair follicles offer a good model to study the mechanisms associated with regenerative medicine. The relevant studies have mainly focused on donor cells, and there are no systematic studies involving the effect of host factors on hair follicle reconstruction. Thus, we intend to explore the effect of host cells on hair follicle reconstruction. Epidermal and dermal cells from red fluorescent protein (RFP) transgenic newborn mice were injected into green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic mice. In addition, we wrapped the mixed dermal and epidermal cells from GFP transgenic and RFP transgenic mice by the Cell-in-a-Box kit to form "capsules," so that the cells within would be isolated from host cells. These capsules were cultured in vitro and transplanted in vivo. Fully developed reconstructed hair follicles were observed after the injection of mixed cells. These reconstructed follicles mainly consisted of donor cells, as well as a small number of host cells. The encapsulated cells gradually aggregated into cell spheres in vitro without apparent differentiation towards hair follicles. With respect to the transplanted capsules, concentric circle structures were observed, but no hair follicles or hair shafts formed. When the concentric circle structures were transplanted in vivo, mature hair follicles were observed 30 days later. Host cells were found in the reconstructed hair follicles. Thus, we conclude that host cells participate in the process of hair follicle reconstruction, and they play a vital role in the process, especially for the maturation of reconstructed hair follicles. Furthermore, we established a special hair follicle reconstruction system with the help of capsules: transplant cells were isolated from host, but other factors from host could exchange with cells inside.

28749199
Hair follicle-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells.
Various types of stem cells reside in the skin, including keratinocyte progenitor cells, melanocyte progenitor cells, skin-derived precursors (SKPs), and nestin-expressing hair follicle-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells. HAP stem cells, located in the bulge area of the hair follicle, have been shown to differentiate to nerve cells, glial cells, keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells, and melanocytes. HAP stem cells are positive for the stem-cell marker CD34, as well as K15-negative, suggesting their relatively undifferentiated state. Therefore, HAP stem cells may be the most primitive stem cells in the skin. Moreover, HAP stem cells can regenerate the epidermis and at least parts of the hair follicle. These results suggest that HAP stem cells may be the origin of other stem cells in the skin. Transplanted HAP stem cells promote the recovery of peripheral-nerve and spinal-cord injuries and have the potential for heart regeneration as well. HAP stem cells are readily accessible from everyone, do not form tumors, and can be cryopreserved without loss of differentiation potential. These results suggest that HAP stem cells may have greater potential than iPS or ES cells for regenerative medicine.

28846493
LncRNAs in Secondary Hair Follicle of Cashmere Goat: Identification, Expression, and Their Regulatory Network in Wnt Signaling Pathway.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a novel class of eukaryotic transcripts. They are thought to act as a critical regulator of protein-coding gene expression. Herein, we identified and characterized 13 putative lncRNAs from the expressed sequence tags from secondary hair follicle of Cashmere goat. Furthermore, we investigated their transcriptional pattern in secondary hair follicle of Liaoning Cashmere goat during telogen and anagen phases. Also, we generated intracellular regulatory networks of upregulated lncRNAs at anagen in Wnt signaling pathway based on bioinformatics analysis. The relative expression of six putative lncRNAs (lncRNA-599618, -599556, -599554, -599547, -599531, and -599509) at the anagen phase is significantly higher than that at telogen. Compared with anagen, the relative expression of four putative lncRNAs (lncRNA-599528, -599518, -599511, and -599497) was found to be significantly upregulated at telogen phase. The network generated showed that a rich and complex regulatory relationship of the putative lncRNAs and related miRNAs with their target genes in Wnt signaling pathway. Our results from the present study provided a foundation for further elucidating the functional and regulatory mechanisms of these putative lncRNAs in the development of secondary hair follicle and cashmere fiber growth of Cashmere goat.

29019741
Activation of mTORC1 Signaling is Required for Timely Hair Follicle Regeneration from Radiation Injury.
Transit amplifying cells (TACs) are highly proliferative in nature and tend to be sensitive to ionizing radiation. Due to the abundance of TACs that support the elongation of hair shafts, growing hair follicles are highly sensitive to radiation injury. How hair follicles repair themselves after radiation injury is unclear. In this study, we observed that in 4 Gy irradiated mice, hair follicle dystrophy was induced with apoptosis-driven loss of hair matrix cells, which are the TACs that fuel hair growth. The dystrophy was repaired within 96 h without significant hair loss, indicating that a regenerative attempt successfully restored the TAC population to resume anagen growth. Soon after irradiation, mTORC1 signaling was activated in the TAC compartment and its activation was maintained until the regeneration process was completed. Inhibition of mTORC1 by rapamycin treatment increased radiation-induced cell apoptosis, reduced cell proliferation and delayed restoration of Wnt signaling in the hair matrix after radiation injury, leading to prolonged dystrophy and hair loss. These results demonstrate that mTORC1 signaling is activated after irradiation and is required for timely regeneration of the TAC pool of hair follicles, so that hair growth can resume after radiation injury.

29336472
Baicalin increases hair follicle development by increasing canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling and activating dermal papillar cells in mice.
Baicalin is a traditional Chinese herbal medicine commonly used for hair loss, the precise molecular mechanism of which is unknown. In the present study, the mechanism of baicalin was investigated via the topical application of baicalin to reconstituted hair follicles on mice dorsa and evaluating the effect on canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in the hair follicles and the activity of dermal papillar cells. The results indicate that baicalin stimulates the expression of Wnt3a, Wnt5a, frizzled 7 and disheveled 2 whilst inhibiting the Axin/casein kinase 1alpha/adenomatous polyposis coli/glycogen synthase kinase 3beta degradation complex, leading to accumulation of beta-catenin and activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. In addition, baicalin was observed to increase the alkaline phosphatase levels in dermal papillar cells, a process which was dependent on Wnt pathway activation. Given its non-toxicity and ease of topical application, baicalin represents a promising treatment for alopecia and other forms of hair loss. Further studies of baicalin using human hair follicle transplants are warranted in preparation for future clinical use.

29567388
Inducing hair follicle neogenesis with secreted proteins enriched in embryonic skin.
Organ development is a sophisticated process of self-organization. However, despite growing understanding of the developmental mechanisms, little is known about how to reactivate them postnatally for regeneration. We found that treatment of adult non-hair fibroblasts with cell-free extract from embryonic skin conferred upon them the competency to regenerate hair follicles. Proteomics analysis identified three secreted proteins enriched in the embryonic skin, apolipoprotein-A1, galectin-1 and lumican that together were essential and sufficient to induce new hair follicles. These 3 proteins show a stage-specific co-enrichment in the perifolliculogenetic embryonic dermis. Mechanistically, exposure to embryonic skin extract or to the combination of the 3 proteins altered the gene expression to an inductive hair follicle dermal papilla fibroblast-like profile and activated Igf and Wnt signaling, which are crucial for the regeneration process. Therefore, a cocktail of organ-specific extracellular proteins from the embryonic environment can render adult cells competent to re-engage in developmental interactions for organ neogenesis. Identification of factors that recreate the extracellular context of respective developing tissues can become an important strategy to promote regeneration in adult organs.

29654758
Regulation of hair follicle development by exosomes derived from dermal papilla cells.
BACKGROUND: Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) play a critical role in the regulation of hair follicle (HF) growth, formation, and cycling. DPCs are thought to regulate HF growth through a paracrine mechanism, in which exosomes may play a critical role. METHODS: DPC-Exos were cutaneously injected into HFs at different HF cycle stages and the effects were evaluated by histological and immunohistochemical analyses. The effects of DPC-Exos on proliferation, migration, and cell cycle status of outer root sheath cells (ORSCs) were evaluated. After treatment of DPC-Exos, changes in mRNA and protein levels of beta-catenin and Sonic hedgehog (Shh) in ORSCs were detected. RESULTS: DPC-Exos were approximately 105 nm in diameter and expressed tumor susceptibility gene 101, cluster of differentiation (CD)9, and CD63. Injection of DPC-Exos accelerated the onset of HF anagen and delayed catagen in mice. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that beta-catenin and Shh levels were upregulated in the skin. In vitro, DPC-Exo treatment enhanced ORSC proliferation and migration, and stimulated the expression of beta-catenin and Shh. CONCLUSION: DPC-Exos contribute to the regulation of HF growth and development, and provide a potential avenue for the treatment of hair loss.

29704126
Dermal white adipose tissue undergoes major morphological changes during the spontaneous and induced murine hair follicle cycling: a reappraisal.
In murine skin, dermal white adipose tissue (DWAT) undergoes major changes in thickness in synchrony with the hair cycle (HC); however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We sought to elucidate whether increased DWAT thickness during anagen is mediated by adipocyte hypertrophy or adipogenesis, and whether lipolysis or apoptosis can explain the decreased DWAT thickness during catagen. In addition, we compared HC-associated DWAT changes between spontaneous and depilation-induced hair follicle (HF) cycling to distinguish between spontaneous and HF trauma-induced events. We show that HC-dependent DWAT remodelling is not an artefact caused by fluctuations in HF down-growth, and that dermal adipocyte (DA) proliferation and hypertrophy are HC-dependent, while classical DA apoptosis is absent. However, none of these changes plausibly accounts for HC-dependent oscillations in DWAT thickness. Contrary to previous studies, in vivo BODIPY uptake suggests that increased DWAT thickness during anagen occurs via hypertrophy rather than hyperplasia. From immunohistomorphometry, DWAT thickness likely undergoes thinning during catagen by lipolysis. Hence, we postulate that progressive, lipogenesis-driven DA hypertrophy followed by dynamic switches between lipogenesis and lipolysis underlie DWAT fluctuations in the spontaneous HC, and dismiss apoptosis as a mechanism of DWAT reduction. Moreover, the depilation-induced HC displays increased DWAT thickness, area, and DA number, but decreased DA volume/area compared to the spontaneous HC. Thus, DWAT shows additional, novel HF wounding-related responses during the induced HC. This systematic reappraisal provides important pointers for subsequent functional and mechanistic studies, and introduces the depilation-induced murine HC as a model for dissecting HF-DWAT interactions under conditions of wounding/stress.

29771334
beta-catenin activation in hair follicle dermal stem cells induces ectopic hair outgrowth and skin fibrosis.
Hair follicle dermal sheath (DS) harbors hair follicle dermal stem cells (hfDSCs), which can be recruited to replenish DS and dermal papilla (DP). Cultured DS cells can differentiate into various cell lineages in vitro. However, it is unclear how its plasticity is modulated in vivo. Wnt/beta-catenin signaling plays an important role in maintaining stem cells of various lineages and is required for HF development and regeneration. Here we report that activation of beta-catenin in DS generates ectopic HF outgrowth (EF) by reprogramming HF epidermal cells and DS cells themselves, and endows DS cells with hair inducing ability. Epidermal homeostasis of pre-existing HFs is disrupted. Additionally, cell-autonomous progressive skin fibrosis is prominent in dermis, where the excessive fibroblasts largely originate from DS. Gene expression analysis of purified DS cells with activated beta-catenin revealed significantly increased expression of Bmp, Fgf, and Notch ligands and administration of Bmp, Fgf, or Notch signaling inhibitor attenuates EF formation. In summary, our findings advance the current knowledge of high plasticity of DS cells and provide an insight into understanding how Wnt/beta-catenin signaling controls DS cell behaviors.

30063206
Hair follicle dermal condensation forms via Fgf20 primed cell cycle exit, cell motility, and aggregation.
Mesenchymal condensation is a critical step in organogenesis, yet the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms remain poorly understood. The hair follicle dermal condensate is the precursor to the permanent mesenchymal unit of the hair follicle, the dermal papilla, which regulates hair cycling throughout life and bears hair inductive potential. Dermal condensate morphogenesis depends on epithelial Fibroblast Growth Factor 20 (Fgf20). Here, we combine mouse models with 3D and 4D microscopy to demonstrate that dermal condensates form de novo and via directional migration. We identify cell cycle exit and cell shape changes as early hallmarks of dermal condensate morphogenesis and find that Fgf20 primes these cellular behaviors and enhances cell motility and condensation. RNAseq profiling of immediate Fgf20 targets revealed induction of a subset of dermal condensate marker genes. Collectively, these data indicate that dermal condensation occurs via directed cell movement and that Fgf20 orchestrates the early cellular and molecular events.

30144361
Review of Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla cells as in vitro screening model for hair growth.
Hair disorders such as hair loss (alopecia) and androgen dependent, excessive hair growth (hirsutism, hypertrichosis) may impact the social and psychological well-being of an individual. Recent advances in understanding the biology of hair have accelerated the research and development of novel therapeutic and cosmetic hair growth agents. Preclinical models aid in dermocosmetic efficacy testing and claim substantiation of hair growth modulators. The in vitro models to investigate hair growth utilize the hair follicle Dermal Papilla cells (DPCs), specialized mesenchymal cells located at the base of hair follicle that play essential roles in hair follicular morphogenesis and postnatal hair growth cycles. In this review, we have compiled and discussed the extensively reported literature citing DPCs as in vitro model to study hair growth promoting and inhibitory effects. A variety of agents such as herbal and natural extracts, growth factors and cytokines, platelet-rich plasma, placental extract, stem cells and conditioned medium, peptides, hormones, lipid-nanocarrier, light, electrical and electromagnetic field stimulation, androgens and their analogs, stress-serum and chemotherapeutic agents etc. have been examined for their hair growth modulating effects in DPCs. Effects on DPCs' activity were determined from untreated (basal) or stress induced levels. Cell proliferation, apoptosis and secretion of growth factors were included as primary end-point markers. Effects on a wide range of biomolecules and mechanistic pathways that play key role in the biology of hair growth were also investigated. This consolidated and comprehensive review summarizes the up-to-date information and understanding regarding DPCs based screening models for hair growth and may be helpful for researchers to select the appropriate assay system and biomarkers. This review highlights the pivotal role of DPCs in the forefront of hair research as screening platforms by providing insights into mechanistic action at cellular level, which may further direct the development of novel hair growth modulators.

30196415
Beating Heart Cells from Hair-Follicle-Associated Pluripotent (HAP) Stem Cells.
The neural stem-cell marker nestin is expressed in hair follicle stem cells located in the bulge area which are termed hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells. HAP stem cells can differentiate into neurons, glia, keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells, and melanocytes in vitro. Subsequently, we demonstrated that HAP stem cells could affect nerve and spinal cord regeneration in mouse models. We subsequently demonstrated that HAP stem cells differentiated into beating cardiac muscle cells. The differentiation potential to cardiac muscle is greatest in the upper part of the mouse whisker follicle. The beat rate of the cardiac muscle cells differentiated from HAP stem cells was stimulated by isoproterenol and inhibited by propanolol. The addition of activin A, bone morphogenetic protein 4, and basic fibroblast growth factor, along with isoproternal, induced the cardiac muscle cells to form tissue sheets of beating heart muscle cells. Under hypoxic conditions, HAP stem cells differentiated into troponin-positive cardiac-muscle cells at a higher rate that under normoxic conditions. Hypoxia did not influence the differentiation to other cell types. This method is appropriate for future use with human hair follicles to produce hHAP stem cells in sufficient quantities for future heart, nerve, and spinal cord regeneration in the clinic.

30239775
A role for the Tgf-beta/Bmp co-receptor Endoglin in the molecular oscillator that regulates the hair follicle cycle.
The hair follicle is a biological oscillator that alternates growth, regression, and rest phases driven by the sequential activation of the proliferation/differentiation programs of resident stem cell populations. The activation of hair follicle stem cell niches and subsequent entry into the growing phase is mainly regulated by Wnt/beta-catenin signalling, while regression and resting phases are mainly regulated by Tgf-beta/Bmp/Smad activity. A major question still unresolved is the nature of the molecular switch that dictates the coordinated transition between both signalling pathways. Here we have focused on the role of Endoglin (Eng), a key co-receptor for members of the Tgf-beta/Bmp family of growth factors. Using an Eng haploinsufficient mouse model, we report that Eng is required to maintain a correct follicle cycling pattern and for an adequate stimulation of hair follicle stem cell niches. We further report that beta-catenin binds to the Eng promoter depending on Bmp signalling. Moreover, we show that beta-catenin interacts with Smad4 in a Bmp/Eng-dependent context and both proteins act synergistically to activate Eng promoter transcription. These observations point to the existence of a growth/rest switching mechanism in the hair follicle that is based on an Eng-dependent feedback cross-talk between Wnt/beta-catenin and Bmp/Smad signals.

30255731
Embryonic-like regenerative phenomenon: wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis.
Wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN) is a regenerative phenomenon that occurs widely in the skin of adult mammalians. A fully functional follicle can regenerate in the center of a full-thickness wound with a large enough size. The cellular origin of this process is similar to embryonic process. Many growth and development-related pathways are involved in WIHN. Studying WIHN can deeply explore the mechanism of biological growth, development and regeneration, and can identify new treatments for hair-related disorders. Our review aims to enlighten future study by summarizing the clinical manifestation of WIHN, as well as the cellular and molecular mechanism of WIHN in recent studies.

30324295
Review of Human Hair Follicle Biology: Dynamics of Niches and Stem Cell Regulation for Possible Therapeutic Hair Stimulation for Plastic Surgeons.
Plastic surgeons are frequently asked to manage male- and female-pattern hair loss in their practice. This article discusses the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and current management of androgenetic alopecia and emphasizes more recent knowledge of stem cell niches in hair follicles that drive hair cycling, alopecia, and its treatment. The many treatment programs available for hair loss include newer strategies that involve the usage of growth factors, platelet-rich plasma, and fat to stimulate follicle growth. Future research may clarify novel biomolecular mechanisms that target specific cells that promote hair regeneration.Level of Evidence V This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .

30341634
Hair-Follicle-Associated Pluripotent (HAP) Stem Cells Encapsulated on Polyvinylidene Fluoride Membranes (PFM) Promote Functional Recovery from Spinal Cord Injury.
Our previous studies showed that nestin-expressing hair follicle-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells, which reside in the bulge area of the hair follicle, could restore injured nerve and spinal cord and differentiate into cardiac muscle cells. Here we transplanted mouse green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing HAP stem-cell colonies enclosed on polyvinylidene fluoride membranes (PFM) into the severed thoracic spinal cord of nude mice. After seven weeks of implantation, we found the differentiation of HAP stem cells into neurons and glial cells. Our results also showed that PFM-captured GFP-expressing HAP stem-cell colonies assisted complete reattachment of the thoracic spinal cord. Furthermore, our quantitative motor function analysis with the Basso Mouse Scale for Locomotion (BMS) score demonstrated a significant improvement in the implanted mice compared to non-implanted mice with a severed spinal cord. Our study also showed that it is easy to obtain HAP stem cells, they do not develop teratomas, and do not loose differentiation ability when cryopreserved. Collectively our results suggest that HAP stem cells could be a better source compared to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS) or embryonic stem (ES) cells for regenerative medicine, specifically for spinal cord repair.

30356261
Transcriptomic analysis reveals critical genes for the hair follicle of Inner Mongolia cashmere goat from catagen to telogen.
There are two main types of hair follicle in Inner Mongolia Cashmere goats, the primary hair follicle (PHF) producing hair fibers and the secondary hair follicle (SHF) producing cashmere fibers. Of both fibers from cashmere-bearing goats in Aerbasi, Inner Mongolia, the timing of cyclical phases for the cashmere have been well clarified but hair fibers have been less noticeable. Herein, we evaluated transcriptome of PHF and SHF from the same three goats in Aerbasi at the catagen- and telogen phase of cashmere growth. We totally found 1977 DEGs between PHFs at the telogen and catagen phases of SHF, 1199 DEGs between telogen- and catagen SHF, 2629 DEGs between PHF at the catagen phase of SHF and catagen SHF, and 755 DEGs between PHF at the telogen phase of SHF and telogen SHF. By analyzing gene functions based on GO and KEGG database, we found that the DEGs have functions in muscle contraction and muscle filament sliding between catagen- and telogen SHF, indicating that arrector pilli muscles might play a role on the transition from catagen to telogen. Moreover, considering that the enriched GO and KEGG categories of the DEGs between PHF and SHF, we suggested that part of PHF might rest in their own anagen phase when SHF are at catagen, but PHF might enter into the telogen phase at SHF's telogen. Finally, we highly recommended the several potential genes acting as the regulators of the transition between growth phases including IL17RB and eight members of ZNF. These results provide insight into molecular mechanisms on the transition of SHF from catagen to telogen together with PHF's growth situation at SHF's catagen and telogen in Inner Mongolia Cashmere goats.

30514661
Degenerated hair follicle cells and partial loss of sebaceous and eccrine glands in a familial case of axenfeld-rieger syndrome: An emerging role for the FOXC1/NFATC1 genetic axis.
BACKGROUND: Cutaneous malformations are at times associated with some forms of congenital heart defects. Many a times subtle cutaneous phenotypes maybe overlooked as their significance on the lives of individuals is minimal. Lebanon represents an area of high consanguinity, where the rates can go beyond 70% in some districts. For the past 6 years, we have been studying several genodermatoses in Lebanon including those with cardiac malformations. OBJECTIVES: The main aim of this study is to document the genetic basis of a familial case of Axenfeld-Rieger Syndrome (ARS) with a mild cutaneous phenotype represented histologically with degeneration/ absence of hair follicles and incomplete formation of sebaceous and eccrine glands, in addition to the cardiac and ocular phenotypes. METHODS: Whole exome sequencing was performed on two identical-twins with ARS along with their affected father and non-affected mother. Sanger sequencing was used to confirm the mutation, and the effects of the mutations on protein function was assessed in vitro using transient transfections. RESULTS: A novel mutation inFOXC1 designated p.L240Rfs*75 was found in both twins and their father. The affected individuals share also a rare documented variant in NFATC1 designated p.V197 M. Both were absent from 200 Lebanese exomes. Our in vitro results suggested a gain of function activity of the FOXC1/NFATC1 complex, confirming its documented role in controlling murine hair follicle stem cells quiescence and regeneration. CONCLUSION: This is the first documented human case with a mutation inFOXC1 regulating multi-organ developmental pathways that reflect a conserved mechanism in cell differentiation and proliferation.

30869556
Characteristic Localization of Neuronatin in Rat Testis, Hair Follicle, Tongue, and Pancreas.
Neuronatin (Nnat) is expressed in the pituitary, pancreas, and other tissues; however, the function of NNAT is still unclear. Recent studies have demonstrated that NNAT is localized in the sex-determining region Y-box 2-positive stem/progenitor cells in the developing rat pituitary primordium and is downregulated during differentiation into mature hormone-producing cells. Moreover, NNAT is widely localized in subcellular organelles, excluding the Golgi. Here, we further evaluated NNAT-positive cells and intracellular localization in embryonic and postnatal rat tissues such as the pancreas, tongue, whisker hair follicle, and testis. Immunohistochemistry revealed that NNAT was localized in undifferentiated cells (i.e., epithelial basal cells and basement cells in the papillae of the tongue and round and elongated spermatids of the testis) as well as in differentiated cells (insulin-positive cells and exocrine cells of the pancreas, taste receptor cells of the fungiform papilla, the inner root sheath of whisker hair follicles, and spermatozoa). In addition, NNAT exhibited novel intracellular localization in acrosomes in the spermatozoa. Because the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is excluded from spermatozoa and sarco/ER Ca2+-ATPase isoform 2 (SERCA2) is absent from the inner root sheath, these findings suggested that NNAT localization in the ER and its interaction with SERCA2 are cell- or tissue-specific properties.

30932205
Histopathology of aging of the hair follicle.
Hair follicles experience several changes with aging, the most noticeable of which is graying of the hair shaft due to loss of melanin. Additional changes in the diameter and length of the hair have contributed to the concept of senescent alopecia, which is different from androgenetic alopecia according to most. Graying happens in most individuals, although in different grades and starting at different ages. It is related to a decrease in the number and activity of the melanocytes of the hair bulb, which eventually completely disappear from the bulb of the white hair. Residual non-active melanocytes remain in the outer root sheath and in the bulge, which allows for repigmentation of the hair under certain stimuli or conditions.

31086232
Divergently expressed RNA identification and interaction prediction of long non-coding RNA and mRNA involved in Hu sheep hair follicle.
Hair follicles are the basis of the formation of Hu sheep pattern. This study was to employ whole transcriptome sequencing to screen differentially expressed long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) between three wave patterns in lambskin. In this study, three groups of 2-day-old Hu sheep were selected from full-sib individuals that included small, medium, and large waves, and hair follicle tissues were collected from dorsal side of Hu sheep. LncRNA and mRNA expression profiles were analyzed by whole transcriptome sequencing technology. 33, 31, and 41 differentially expressed lncRNAs were selected between large and medium, medium and small, and large and small, respectively. 458, 481, and 498 differentially expressed mRNAs were found between large and medium, medium and small, and large and small, respectively, by RNA-seq analysis. qRT-PCR results of 16 randomly selected lncRNAs and mRNAs were similar to the sequencing results. Correlation analysis of lncRNA and mRNA expression showed that, several lncRNAs may be enriched for hair follicle such as Wnt, mTOR, Notch signaling pathways. Our results aid in excavation of mRNAs and lncRNAs in hair follicle, and providing a basis for future study on pattern formation mechanisms.

31186438
Genome-wide identification and characterization of long non-coding RNAs expressed during sheep fetal and postnatal hair follicle development.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), >200 nt in length, are transcribed from mammalian genomes. They play important regulatory roles in various biological processes; However, the function and expression profile of lncRNAs involved in the development of hair follicles in the fetus, have been relatively under-explored area. To investigate the specific role of lncRNAs and mRNAs that regulate hair follicle development, we herein performed a comprehensive study on the lncRNA and mRNA expression profiles of sheep at multiple embryonic days (E65, E85, E105, and E135) and six lambs aged one week (D7) and one month (D30) using RNA-seq technology. The number of genes (471 lncRNAs and 12,812 mRNAs) differentially expressed and potential targets of differentially expressed lncRNAs were predicted. Differentially expressed lncRNAs were grouped into 10 clusters based on their expression pattern by K-means clustering. Moreover, Gene Ontology (GO) annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses showed that some differentially expressed mRNAs, such as DKK1, DSG4, FOXE1, Hoxc13, SFRP1, SFRP2, and Wnt10A overlapped with lncRNAs targets, and enriched in important hair follicle developmental pathways, including Wnt, TNF, and MAPK signaling pathways. In addition, 9 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 4 differentially expressed mRNAs were validated using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). This study helps enrich the Ovis lncRNA databases and provides a comprehensive lncRNA transcriptome profile of fetal and postnatal skin of sheep. Additionally, it provides a foundation for further experiments on the role of lncRNAs in the regulation of hair growth in sheep.

31195626
The Role of Extracellular Vesicles in Cutaneous Remodeling and Hair Follicle Dynamics.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes, microvesicles, and apoptotic bodies, are cell-derived membranous structures that were originally catalogued as a way of releasing cellular waste products. Since the discovery of their function in intercellular communication as carriers of proteins, lipids, and DNA and RNA molecules, numerous therapeutic approaches have focused on the use of EVs, in part because of their minimized risk compared to cell-based therapies. The skin is the organ with the largest surface in the body. Besides the importance of its body barrier function, much attention has been paid to the skin in regenerative medicine because of its cosmetic aspect, which is closely related to disorders affecting pigmentation and the presence or absence of hair follicles. The use of exosomes in therapeutic approaches for cutaneous wound healing has been reported and is briefly reviewed here. However, less attention has been paid to emerging interest in the potential capacity of EVs as modulators of hair follicle dynamics. Hair follicles are skin appendices that mainly comprise an epidermal and a mesenchymal component, with the former including a major reservoir of epithelial stem cells but also melanocytes and other cell types. Hair follicles continuously cycle, undergoing consecutive phases of resting, growing, and regression. Many biomolecules carried by EVs have been involved in the control of the hair follicle cycle and stem cell function. Thus, investigating the role of either naturally produced or therapeutically delivered EVs as signaling vehicles potentially involved in skin homeostasis and hair cycling may be an important step in the attempt to design future strategies towards the efficient treatment of several skin disorders.

31243280
Noncoding dsRNA induces retinoic acid synthesis to stimulate hair follicle regeneration via TLR3.
How developmental programs reactivate in regeneration is a fundamental question in biology. We addressed this question through the study of Wound Induced Hair follicle Neogenesis (WIHN), an adult organogenesis model where stem cells regenerate de novo hair follicles following deep wounding. The exact mechanism is uncertain. Here we show that self-noncoding dsRNA activates the anti-viral receptor toll like receptor 3 (TLR3) to induce intrinsic retinoic acid (RA) synthesis in a pattern that predicts new hair follicle formation after wounding in mice. Additionally, in humans, rejuvenation lasers induce gene expression signatures for dsRNA and RA, with measurable increases in intrinsic RA synthesis. These results demonstrate a potent stimulus for RA synthesis by non-coding dsRNA, relevant to their broad functions in development and immunity.

31335913
An important role of podoplanin in hair follicle growth.
Podoplanin (PDPN) is a glycoprotein that is expressed by various cell types, including keratinocytes, fibroblasts, and lymphatic endothelial cells. We found that PDPN is expressed in the hair follicle (HF) keratinocyte region and HF stem cell area during the late anagen phase but not during the telogen phase in mice. Importantly, keratinocyte-specific PDPN deletion in mice (K5-Cre;PDPNflox/flox) promoted anagen HF growth after depilation-induced HF regeneration as compared to control mice. RNA sequencing, followed by gene ontology analysis, showed down-regulation of focal adhesion and extracellular matrix interaction pathways in HF stem cells isolated from K5-Cre;PDPNflox/flox mice as compared to control mice. Furthermore, HF keratinocytes isolated from K5-Cre;PDPNflox/flox mice exhibited a decreased ability to interact with collagen type I in cell adhesion assays. Taken together, these results show that PDPN deletion promotes HF cycling, possibly via reduced focal adhesion and concomitantly enhanced migration of HF stem cells towards the bulb region. They also indicate potential new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of conditions associated with hair loss.

31337968
Exosomal Micro RNAs Derived from Dermal Papilla Cells Mediate Hair Follicle Stem Cell Proliferation and Differentiation.
Recent studies have demonstrated that dermal papilla cell-derived exosomes (DPC-Exos) promote the anagen stage of hair follicle (HF) growth and delay the catagen stage. However, the roles of DPC-Exos in regulating hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) quiescence and activation remain unknown. Here, we found that HFSC differentiation was induced by co-culture with DPCs, and that DPC-Exos attached to the surface of HFSCs. Using micro RNA (miRNA) high-throughput sequencing, we identified 111 miRNAs that were significantly differentially expressed between DPC-Exos and DPCs, and the predicted target genes of the top 34 differentially expressed miRNAs indicated that DPC-Exos regulate HFSCs proliferation and differentiation via genes involved in cellular signal transduction, fatty acid expression regulation, and cellular communication. The overexpression of miR-22-5p indicated that it negatively regulates HFSC proliferation and LEF1 was revealed as the direct target gene of miR-22-5p. We therefore propose the miR-22-5p-LEF1 axis as a novel pathway regulating HFSC proliferation.

31344105
An important role of cutaneous lymphatic vessels in coordinating and promoting anagen hair follicle growth.
The lymphatic vascular system plays important roles in the control of tissue fluid homeostasis and immune responses. While VEGF-A-induced angiogenesis promotes hair follicle (HF) growth, the potential role of lymphatic vessels (LVs) in HF cycling has remained unknown. In this study, we found that LVs are localized in close proximity to the HF bulge area throughout the postnatal and depilation-induced hair cycle in mice and that a network of LVs directly connects the individual HFs. Increased LV density in the skin of K14-VEGF-C transgenic mice was associated with prolongation of anagen HF growth. Conversely, HF entry into the catagen phase was accelerated in K14-sVEGFR3 transgenic mice that lack cutaneous LVs. Importantly, repeated intradermal injections of VEGF-C promoted hair growth in mice. Conditioned media from lymphatic endothelial cells promoted human dermal papilla cell (DPC) growth and expression of IGF-1 and alkaline phosphatase, both activators of DPCs. Our results reveal an unexpected role of LVs in coordinating and promoting HF growth and identify potential new therapeutic strategies for hair loss-associated conditions.

31415730
DHT and E2 synthesis-related proteins and receptors expression in male yak skin during different hair follicle stages.
Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and 17beta-estradiol (E2) are sex hormones that regulate human hair follicle (HF) growth and are produced by peripheral reduction and aromatization of testosterone. However, the expression patterns of DHT and E2 synthesis-related proteins and their receptors in male yak skin during different HF stages (telogen, anagen, and catagen) are unknown. In this study, we found that both 5alpha-red and androgen receptor (AR) were expressed in epithelial cells and AR was expressed in the dermal papilla. Additionally, the transcription level of 5alpha-red1 at different HF stages was significantly higher than that of 5alpha-red2 mRNA at the same stage; 5alpha-red1 and 5alpha-red2 proteins peaked during the anagen and telogen periods of HF, respectively. However, AR protein was only expressed in the skin during the anagen phase of HF. Aromatase and estrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta) were expressed in cutaneous epithelial cells, whereas ERalpha and ERbeta were expressed in the dermal papilla; the transcription level of ERalpha in HFs at each stage was much higher than that of ERbeta. From the catagen to telogen phase, aromatase protein expression was down-regulated, while ERalpha protein expression was up-regulated. Based on our results, we speculate that 5alpha-red1 is essential for the synthesis of DHT in male yak skin epithelial cells and promotes the growth of HFs through AR. E2 synthesized by male yak skin epithelial cells may inhibit the growth of male yak skin HFs by ERalpha. These results provide a foundation for further study on the mechanism of hormone-regulated male yak skin HFs.

31443676
PBX homeobox 1 enhances hair follicle mesenchymal stem cell proliferation and reprogramming through activation of the AKT/glycogen synthase kinase signaling pathway and suppression of apoptosis.
BACKGROUND: PBX homeobox 1 (PBX1) is involved in the maintenance of the pluripotency of human embryonic and hematopoietic stem cells; however, the effects of PBX1 in the self-renewal and reprogramming of hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (HF-MSCs) are unclear. The AKT/glycogen synthase kinase (GSK) 3beta pathway regulates cell metabolism, proliferation, apoptosis, and reprogramming, and p16 and p21, which act downstream of this pathway, regulate cell proliferation, cell cycle, and apoptosis induced by reprogramming. Here, we aimed to elucidate the roles of PBX1 in regulating the proliferation and reprogramming of HF-MSCs. METHODS: A lentiviral vector designed to carry the PBX1 sequence or PBX1 short hairpin RNA sequence was used to overexpress or knock down PBX1. The roles of PBX1 in proliferation and apoptosis were investigated by flow cytometry. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate pluripotent gene expression. Dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the transcriptional activity of the NANOG promoter. Western blotting was performed to identify the molecules downstream of PBX1 involved in proliferation and reprogramming. Caspase3 activity was detected to assess HF-MSC reprogramming. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/AKT inhibitor LY294002 was used to inhibit the phosphorylation and activity of AKT. RESULTS: Overexpression of PBX1 in HF-MSCs increased the phosphorylation of AKT and nuclear translocation of beta-catenin, resulting in the progression of the cell cycle from G0/G1 to S phase. Moreover, transfection with a combination of five transcription factors (SOMKP) in HF-MSCs enhanced the formation of alkaline phosphatase-stained colonies compared with that in HF-MSCs transfected with a combination of four transcription factors (SOMK). PBX1 upregulated Nanog transcription by activating the promoter and promoted the expression of endogenous SOX2 and OCT4. Furthermore, PBX1 expression activated the AKT/glycogen synthase kinase (GSK) 3beta pathway and reduced apoptosis during the early stages of reprogramming. Inhibition of phospho-AKT or knockdown of PBX1 promoted mitochondrion-mediated apoptosis and reduced reprogramming efficiency. CONCLUSIONS: PBX1 enhanced HF-MSC proliferation, and HF-MSCs induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) generation by activating the AKT/GSK3beta signaling pathway. During the reprogramming of HF-MSCs into HF-iPSCs, PBX1 activated the NANOG promoter, upregulated NANOG, and inhibited mitochondrion-mediated apoptosis via the AKT/GSK3beta pathway during the early stages of reprogramming.

31556145
Human basal cell carcinoma: the induction of anagen hair follicle differentiation.
BACKGROUND: Consistent with cancer stem cell driven pattern of growth, human basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) demonstrate differentiation along hair follicle (HF) lineages. AIM: To define the pattern of differentiation and therapeutic targets that promote BCC differentiation and therefore BCC cancer stem cell exhaustion. METHODS: An alkaline phosphatase substrate kit was used to determine dermal papilla cells within the BCC stroma. Autonomous HF cycle-dependent gene expression was identified by analysis of the human homologues of a murine gene set (total 2289 genes) that is differentially expressed in hair cycle phases. The findings were validated by quantitative real-time PCR and immunofluorescence, as well as in vitro transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta2 stimulation of BCC cancer stem cell colonies. RESULTS: As in the HF, keratin expression in the inner root sheath and matrix in BCC correlated with proliferative index and was tightly regulated, despite the absence of dermal papilla cells. Cross-species microarray analysis comparing human BCC and murine synchronous HF growth cycle datasets revealed 74% concordance with telogen differentiation compared with anagen (23%, P < 0.01) and catagen (49%; P < 0.01). Incomplete anagen differentiation within BCC was characterized by reduced expression of the anagen master regulator DLX3 (-5.5-fold), and increased expression of telogen-associated genes: AEBP1 (2.2-fold), DEFB8 (35.3-fold), MMP3 (106.0-fold) and MMP12 (12.9-fold). Restoration of dermal papilla signals by in vitro addition of TGF-beta2 enhanced anagen differentiation. CONCLUSION: Our findings show that BCC cells differentiate along HF lineages and may be susceptible to exogenous HF cycle modulators.

31580512
Hair follicle differentiation-specific keratin expression in human basal cell carcinoma.
BACKGROUND: Identification of human basal cell carcinoma (BCC) cancer stem cells and cellular hierarchy inherently implies the presence of differentiation. By conventional histological analysis, BCC demonstrates tumour nodules that appear relatively homogeneous. AIM: As BCCs arise from hair follicle (HF) keratinocytes, we sought to define the pattern of HF differentiation. METHODS: BCC, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and normal skin tissues were analysed using a microarray chip. The expression of individual keratins, regulatory pathways and proliferative states were analysed using reverse transcription-PCR and immunofluorescence microscopy. RESULTS: Microarray analysis of BCC, SCC and normal hair-bearing skin revealed that BCCs express a wide range of HF genes, including HF- specific keratins. BCC demonstrated outer (KRT5, KRT514, KRT516, KRT517 and KRT519) and inner (KRT25, KRT27, KRT28, KRT32, KRT35, KRT71, KRT75 and KRT85) root sheath differentiation, but not hair shaft differentiation. As in the HF, differentiation-specific keratins in BCC keratinocytes correlated with a reduced proliferative index and regulatory pathway activation despite the oncogenic drive towards tumour growth. Our findings show the close correlation between HF and BCC keratinocyte differentiation. CONCLUSION: This work has defined the differentiation pattern within BCCs, enabling development of targeted therapies that promote differentiation and result in BCC cancer stem cell exhaustion.

31582654
Hair Growth Promoting Effect of Hottuynia cordata Extract in Cultured Human Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells.
Houttuynia cordata (HC) is a traditional oriental herbal medicinal plant widely used as a component of complex prescriptions in Asia for alopecia treatment. The effect of HC on hair growth and its underlying mechanism, however, have not been demonstrated or clarified. In this study, we investigated the hair growth promoting effect of HC in cultured human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs). HC extract was found to stimulate the proliferation of hDPCs and this stimulation might be in part a consequence of activated cellular energy metabolism, because treatment of HC extract increased the generation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) and ATP through increasing the mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi). In the context of cell cycle, HC extract increased the expression of CDK4 and decreased the expression of CCNA2 and CCNB1, implying that HC extract might induce G1 phase progression of DPCs which resulted in enhanced proliferation. HC extract increased the expression of Bcl2 essential for maintaining hair follicle anagen stage and cell survival. On the contrary, the expression of p16 and p21 was down-regulated by HC extract. In addition, HC extract enhanced the secretion of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-aa and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and AKT. Furthermore, HC extract prolonged anagen stage in organ cultured human hair follicles. Our data strongly suggest that HC extract could support hair growth by stimulating proliferation of DPCs and elongating anagen stage, resulted from enhanced cellular energy metabolism and modulation of gene expression related to cell cycle, apoptosis, and growth factors.

31715508
A crucial role of fibroblast growth factor 2 in the differentiation of hair follicle stem cells toward endothelial cells in a STAT5-dependent manner.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF2) is reported to affect the proliferation, differentiation, and survival abilities of stem cells. In this study, we hypothesize that FGF2 might promote the differentiation of hair follicle stem cell (HFSCs) into endothelial cells (ECs), in a manner dependent on STAT5 activation. We first treated human HFSCs with recombinant human FGF2 to determine the involvement of FGF2 in the differentiation of HFSCs. Then the expression of EC-specific markers including von Willebrand factor (vWF), VE-cadherin, CD31, FLT-1, KDR and Tie2 was evaluated using immunofluorescence and flow cytometry, while the expression of HFSC-specific markers such as K15, K19, Lgr5, Sox9 and Lhx2 was determined by flow cytometry. Next, in vitro tube formation was performed to confirm the function of FGF2, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) uptake by ECs and HFSCs was studied by Dil-acetylated LDL assay. In addition, we transduced FGF2-treated HFSCs with constitutive-active or dominant-negative STAT5A adenovirus vectors. FGF2 up-regulated the expression of EC-specific markers, and promoted the differentiation of HFSCs into ECs, tube formation and LDL uptake. The phosphorylated STAT5 was translocated into the nucleus of HFSCs after FGF2 treatment, but this translocation was blocked by the dominant-negative STAT5A mutant. FGF2 increased the differentiation potential through the activation of STAT5 in vivo. Taken together, we find that FGF2 promotes the differentiation of HFSCs into ECs via activated STAT5, which gives a new perspective on the role of FGF2 in the development of ischemic vascular disease.

31721388
Hes1 regulates anagen initiation and hair follicle regeneration through modulation of hedgehog signaling.
Adult hair follicles undergo repeated cycling of regression (catagen), resting (telogen), and growth (anagen), which is maintained by hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). The mechanism underlying hair growth initiation and HFSC maintenance is not fully understood. Here, by epithelial deletion of Hes1, a major Notch downstream transcriptional repressor, we found that hair growth is retarded, but the hair cycle progresses normally. Hes1 is specifically upregulated in the lower bulge/HG during anagen initiation. Accordingly, loss of Hes1 results in delayed activation of the secondary hair germ (HG) and shortened anagen phase. This developmental delay causes reduced hair shaft length but not identity changes in follicular lineages. Remarkably, Hes1 ablation results in impaired hair regeneration upon repetitive depilation. Microarray gene profiling on HFSCs indicates that Hes1 modulates Shh responsiveness in anagen initiation. Using primary keratinocyte cultures, we demonstrated that Hes1 deletion negatively influences ciliogenesis and Smoothened ciliary accumulation upon Shh treatment. Furthermore, transient application of Smoothened agonist during repetitive depilation can rescue anagen initiation and HFSC self-renewal in Hes1-deficient hair follicles. We reveal a critical function of Hes1 in potentiating Shh signaling in anagen initiation, which allows sufficient signaling strength to expand the HG and replenish HFSCs to maintain the hair cycle homeostasis.

31947635
Protective Role of Nutritional Plants Containing Flavonoids in Hair Follicle Disruption: A Review.
Hair loss is a disorder in which the hair falls out from skin areas such as the scalp and the body. Several studies suggest the use of herbal medicine to treat related disorders, including alopecia. Dermal microcirculation is essential for hair maintenance, and an insufficient blood supply can lead to hair follicles (HF) diseases. This work aims to provide an insight into the ethnohistorical records of some nutritional compounds containing flavonoids for their potential beneficial features in repairing or recovering from hair follicle disruption. We started from a query for "alopecia" OR "hair loss" AND "Panax ginseng C.A. Mey." (or other six botanicals) terms included in Pubmed and Web of Sciences articles. The activities of seven common botanicals introduced with diet (Panax ginseng C.A. Mey., Malus pumila Mill cultivar Annurca, Coffea arabica, Allium sativum L., Camellia sinensis (L.) Kuntze, Rosmarinum officinalis L., Capsicum annum L.) are discussed, which are believed to reduce the rate of hair loss or stimulate new hair growth. In this review, we pay our attention on the molecular mechanisms underlying the bioactivity of the aforementioned nutritional compounds in vivo, ex vivo and in vitro studies. There is a need for systematic evaluation of the most commonly used plants to confirm their anti-hair loss power, identify possible mechanisms of action, and recommend their best adoption.

32036485
Multimodal imaging of hair follicle bulge-derived stem cells in a mouse model of traumatic brain injury.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a devastating event for which current therapies are limited. Stem cell transplantation may lead to recovery of function via different mechanisms, such as cell replacement through differentiation, stimulation of angiogenesis and support to the microenvironment. Adult hair follicle bulge-derived stem cells (HFBSCs) possess neuronal differentiation capacity, are easy to harvest and are relatively immune-privileged, which makes them potential candidates for autologous stem cell-based therapy. In this study, we apply in vivo multimodal, optical and magnetic resonance imaging techniques to investigate the behavior of mouse HFBSCs in a mouse model of TBI. HFBSCs expressed Luc2 and copGFP and were examined for their differentiation capacity in vitro. Subsequently, transduced HFBSCs, preloaded with ferumoxytol, were transplanted next to the TBI lesion (cortical region) in nude mice, 2 days after injury. Brains were fixed for immunohistochemistry 58 days after transplantation. Luc2- and copGFP-expressing, ferumoxytol-loaded HFBSCs showed adequate neuronal differentiation potential in vitro. Bioluminescence of the lesioned brain revealed survival of HFBSCs and magnetic resonance imaging identified their localization in the area of transplantation. Immunohistochemistry showed that transplanted cells stained for nestin and neurofilament protein (NF-Pan). Cells also expressed laminin and fibronectin but extracellular matrix masses were not detected. After 58 days, ferumoxytol could be detected in HFBSCs in brain tissue sections. These results show that HFBSCs are able to survive after brain transplantation and suggest that cells may undergo differentiation towards a neuronal cell lineage, which supports their potential use for cell-based therapy for TBI.

32088378
Olig2 positive cells derived from hair follicle neural crest stem cells in rats.
Motor neuron disease (MND) is a kind of common clinical nervous system disease with typical characteristic of progressive motor neurons degeneration or death. Motor neuron derived from stem cells or motor neuron progenitor cells will be a good choice to be used for treatment of the disease. In this study, we used the combination of 5 small molecular including CHIR99021 (CHIR), SB431542 (SB), DMH1 (DMH), retinoic acid (RA) and Purmorphamine (Pur) to induce hair follicles neural crest stem cells (hfNCSCs) to motor neurons progenitors (MNPs). Valproic acid (VPA) was used to make MNPs proliferation. RA and Pur were used to try to induce MNPs toward motor neurons (MNs) and CpdE was tried for MNs maturation. Nestin, beta-tubulin SH (Tuj1), microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2), Olig2, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)and TUBB3 were examined at protein and mRNA levels by immunofluoresence cytochemistry, western blot and real time PCR at 6, 16 and 22 days. Our data showed cells changed into bipolar or multipolar shape forming the cell clusters like scattered rosettes. Nestin expression decreased significantly at 22 days. Compared to 6 days, percentage of Olig2 + MNPs was higher, (88.53 +- 6.67)%, and Olig2 expression at protein and gene level was lower at 22 days. Percentage of MAP2 positive cells increased to (90.62 +- 2.31) % and ChAT positive cells increased to (83.29 +- 6.62) % at 22 days. But no expression of ChAT was examined by western blot and real time PCR. It indicates that these 5 molecular can differentiate hfNCSCs into Olig2 positive cells with a unipotent differentiation toward motor neurons.

32233965
Identification and molecular analysis of cashmere goat lncRNAs reveal their integrated regulatory network and potential roles in secondary hair follicle.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) is a class of eukaryotic transcripts with length of more than 200 bp. They contribute to the regulation of gene expressions involved in multiple processes including the skin cell proliferation, differentiation, and reconstruction of the secondary hair follicles (SHFs). In this study, firstly, we identified 16 putative lncRNAs from SHFs of cashmere goat based on the EST sequences from NCBI database. Secondly, we investigated their transcriptional pattern in SHFs of cashmere goat, and constructed their ceRNA regulatory networks. The RT-qPCR results showed four lncRNAs (lncRNA-475074, -052149, -052140, and -051789) were significantly up-regulated, and nine lncRNAs (lncRNA-711032, -475083, -475070, -052139, -052127, -052037, -051903, -051847, and -051804) were significantly down-regulatd in anagen SHFs of cashmere goat. CeRNA networks analysis revealed complex interactional relationship among lncRNAs, miRNAs and mRNAs. Further, the KEGG pathway enrichment was performed for the potential target genes of the identified lncRNAs based on bioinformatics technique, and the results indicated that differentially expressed lncRNAs directly or indirectly might regulate potential target genes. Our results from this study will provide a significant information for further exploring the functions and possible mechanisms of the identified lncRNAs in SHFs of cashmere goat.

32240121
Hair follicle stem cell replication stress drives IFI16/STING-dependent inflammation in hidradenitis suppurativa.
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic, relapsing, inflammatory skin disease. HS appears to be a primary abnormality in the pilosebaceous-apocrine unit. In this work, we characterized hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) isolated from HS patients and more precisely the outer root sheath cells (ORSCs). We showed that hair follicle cells from HS patients had an increased number of proliferating progenitor cells and lost quiescent stem cells. Remarkably, we also showed that the progression of replication forks was altered in ORSCs from hair follicles of HS patients, leading to activation of the ATR/CHK1 pathway. These alterations were associated with an increased number of micronuclei and with the presence of cytoplasmic ssDNA, leading to the activation of the IFI16/STING pathway and the production of type I IFNs. This mechanistic analysis of the etiology of HS in the HFSC compartment establishes a formal link between genetic predisposition and skin inflammation observed in HS.

32501534
The study of hair follicle counts from scalp histopathology in the Thai population.
BACKGROUND: The horizontal section of a scalp specimen offers an advantage over a vertical section by providing quantitative information. The reference data for hair counts in Asians, including Thais, are inconclusive. We aimed to determine the normal values of hair counts in scalp biopsy specimens in the Thai population. METHODS: A 4-mm punch biopsy was performed at the occipital area of the scalp from subjects presenting with clinically normal hair and scalp appearance. All specimens were horizontally sectioned and observed to assess the number of follicular units and hair follicles, type of hairs, and phase of the hair cycle. The results were further compared between sexes and with the pre-existing data from previous studies. RESULTS: Ninety specimens were collected from 90 subjects. The average number of total hairs, terminal hairs, vellus hairs, and follicular units per 4-mm punch scalp skin were 20.5 +- 5.2, 18.2 +- 4.1, 2 (range 0-7), and 9.1 +- 1.6, respectively. The mean ratio of terminal to vellus hair was 8.9:1 and of anagen to telogen hair was 91.9:7.9. There were no gender differences in any of the parameters and no correlations with changing age. Compared to other Asian populations, Thais and Taiwanese showed intermediate values between Iranians and Koreans; when compared to other ethnic groups, hair density in Asians showed lower than Caucasians and Hispanics but was comparable to Africans. CONCLUSION: This study established reference values of scalp horizontal sections in the Thai population; this will be helpful for clinicians and researchers to evaluate hair disorders.

32549352
Analysis of lncRNAs Expression Profiles in Hair Follicle of Hu Sheep Lambskin.
Lambskin of the Hu sheep exhibits high economic value due to its water-wave pattern. Wool curvature is the key factor of the pattern types and quality of lambskin, and it is formed by the interaction between dermal papilla cells and hair matrix cells in the hair follicle, which is regulated by various genes and signaling pathways. Herein, three full-sibling pairs of two-day-old healthy lambs (n = 6) were divided into a straight wool group (ST) and small waves group (SM) with three repetitions. RNA-seq was applied to determine the expression profile of mRNAs and lncRNAs in Hu sheep hair follicles. 25 differentially expressed mRNAs and 75 differentially expressed lncRNAs were found between SM and ST. FGF12, ATP1B4, and TCONS_00279168 were probably associated with hair follicle development. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG enrichment analysis were implemented for the functional annotation of target genes of differentially expressed lncRNAs. The results showed that many genes, such as FGF12 and ATP1B4, were found enriched in PI3K-Akt signaling, MAPK signaling, and Ras signaling pathway associated with hair follicle growth and development. In addition, the interaction network of differentially expressed lncRNAs and mRNAs showed that a total of 6 differentially expressed lncRNAs were associated with 12 differentially expressed mRNAs, which may be as candidate mRNAs and lncRNAs. TCONS_00279168 may target ATP1B4 and FGF12 to regulate MAPK, PI3K-Akt, Ras signaling pathways involved in the sheep hair follicle development process. These results will provide the basis for exploring hair follicle development.

32927740
Autologous, Non-Invasively Available Mesenchymal Stem Cells from the Outer Root Sheath of Hair Follicle Are Obtainable by Migration from Plucked Hair Follicles and Expandable in Scalable Amounts.
BACKGROUND: Regenerative therapies based on autologous mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) as well as stem cells in general are still facing an unmet need for non-invasive sampling, availability, and scalability. The only known adult source of autologous MSCs permanently available with no pain, discomfort, or infection risk is the outer root sheath of the hair follicle (ORS). METHODS: This study presents a non-invasively-based method for isolating and expanding MSCs from the ORS (MSCORS) by means of cell migration and expansion in air-liquid culture. RESULTS: The method yielded 5 million cells of pure MSCORS cultured in 35 days, thereby superseding prior art methods of culturing MSCs from hair follicles. MSCORS features corresponded to the International Society for Cell Therapy characterization panel for MSCs: adherence to plastic, proliferation, colony forming, expression of MSC-markers, and adipo-, osteo-, and chondro-differentiation capacity. Additionally, MSCORS displayed facilitated random-oriented migration and high proliferation, pronounced marker expression, extended endothelial and smooth muscle differentiation capacity, as well as a paracrine immunomodulatory effect on monocytes. MSCORS matched or even exceeded control adipose-derived MSCs in most of the assessed qualities. CONCLUSIONS: MSCORS qualify for a variety of autologous regenerative treatments of chronic disorders and prophylactic cryopreservation for purposes of acute treatments in personalized medicine.

32998696
Genome-wide detection and sequence conservation analysis of long non-coding RNA during hair follicle cycle of yak.
BACKGROUND: Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) as an important regulator has been demonstrated playing an indispensable role in the biological process of hair follicles (HFs) growth. However, their function and expression profile in the HFs cycle of yak are yet unknown. Only a few functional lncRNAs have been identified, partly due to the low sequence conservation and lack of identified conserved properties in lncRNAs. Here, lncRNA-seq was employed to detect the expression profile of lncRNAs during the HFs cycle of yak, and the sequence conservation of two datasets between yak and cashmere goat during the HFs cycle was analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 2884 lncRNAs were identified in 5 phases (Jan., Mar., Jun., Aug., and Oct.) during the HFs cycle of yak. Then, differential expression analysis between 3 phases (Jan., Mar., and Oct.) was performed, revealing that 198 differentially expressed lncRNAs (DELs) were obtained in the Oct.-vs-Jan. group, 280 DELs were obtained in the Jan.-vs-Mar. group, and 340 DELs were obtained in the Mar.-vs-Oct. group. Subsequently, the nearest genes of lncRNAs were searched as the potential target genes and used to explore the function of DELs by GO and KEGG enrichment analysis. Several critical pathways involved in HFs development such as Wnt signaling pathway, VEGF signaling pathway, and signaling pathways regulating pluripotency of stem cells, were enriched. To further screen key lncRNAs influencing the HFs cycle, 24 DELs with differ degree of sequence conservation were obtained via a comparative analysis of partial DELs with previously published lncRNA-seq data of cashmere goat in the HFs cycle using NCBI BLAST-2.9.0+, and 3 DELs of them were randomly selected for further detailed analysis of the sequence conservation properties. CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed the expression pattern and potential function of lncRNAs during HFs cycle of yak, which would expand the knowledge about the role of lncRNAs in the HFs cycle. The findings related to sequence conservation properties of lncRNAs in the HFs cycle between the two species may provide valuable insights into the study of lncRNA functionality and mechanism.

33052240
Nanoscale microenvironment engineering based on layer-by-layer self-assembly to regulate hair follicle stem cell fate for regenerative medicine.
Hair regenerative medicine, a promising strategy for the treatment of hair loss, will likely involve the transplantation of autologous hair follicular stem cells (HFSCs) and dermal papilla cells (DPCs) into regions of hair loss. Cyclic hair regeneration results from the periodic partial activation of HFSCs. However, previous studies have not successfully achieved large-scale HFSC expansion in vitro without the use of feeder cells, with a lack of research focused on regulating HFSC fate for hair follicular (HF) regeneration. Hence, an emerging focus in regenerative medicine is the reconstruction of natural extracellular matrix (ECM) regulatory characteristics using biomaterials to generate cellular microenvironments for expanding stem cells and directing their fate for tissue regeneration. Methods: HFSCs were coated with gelatin and alginate using layer-by-layer (LbL) self-assembly technology to construct biomimetic ECM for HFSCs; after which transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta2 was loaded into the coating layer, which served as a sustained-release signal molecule to regulate the fate of HFSCs both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro experiments (cell culture and siRNA) were employed to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved and in vivo implantation was carried out to evaluate hair induction efficiency. Results: Nanoscale biomimetic ECM was constructed for individual HFSCs, which allowed for the stable amplification of HFSCs and maintenance of their stem cell properties. TGF-beta2 loading into the coating layer induced transformation of CD34+ stem cells into highly proliferating Lgr5+ stem cells, similar to the partial activation of HFSCs in HF regeneration. Thus, LbL coating and TGF-beta2 loading partially reconstructed the quiescent and activated states, respectively, of stem cells during HF regeneration, thereby mimicking the microenvironment that regulates stem cell fate for tissue regeneration during HF cycling. Improved HF regeneration was achieved when the two HFSC states were co-transplanted with neonatal mouse dermal cells into nude mice. Conclusion: This study provides novel methods for the construction of stem cell microenvironments and experimental models of HF regeneration for the treatment of hair loss.

33076979
DNMT1-mediated methylation inhibits microRNA-214-3p and promotes hair follicle stem cell differentiate into adipogenic lineages.
BACKGROUND: Dysfunction of the DNA methylation was associated with stem cell reprogramming. Moreover, DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) deficiency was involved in the differentiation of hair follicle stem cell (HFSc), but the molecular mechanisms remain unknown. METHODS: HFSc from human scalp tissues were isolated and cultured. The oil red O staining was used to observe the adipogenesis. The interaction relationship between microRNA (miR)-214-3p and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MAPK1) was accessed by dual-luciferase reporter gene assay. The methylation level of miR-214-3p promoter was detected by methylation-specific PCR and the enrichment of DNMT1 in miR-214-3p promoter by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. A mouse model of trauma was established to observe the skin regeneration at 0, 6, and 14 days. RESULTS: Expression of DNMT1 and MAPK1 was increased in the HFSc, while the expression of miR-214-3p was reduced. Moreover, DNMT1 inhibited the expression of miR-214-3p by promoting the promoter methylation of miR-214-3p. Overexpression of DNMT1 could reduce the expression of miR-214-3p, but increase the expression of MAPK1 and the extent of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 phosphorylation, leading to enhanced adipogenic differentiation. Importantly, DNMT1 promoted skin regeneration in vivo. Conversely, overexpression of miR-214-3p could reverse the effects of DNMT1 on adipogenesis of HFSc. CONCLUSION: DNMT1 promotes adipogenesis of HFSc by mediating miR-214-3p/MAPK1/p-ERK1/2 axis. This study may provide novel biomarkers for the potential application in stem cell therapy.

33109258
RNA-seq reveals tight junction-relevant erythropoietic fate induced by OCT4 in human hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells.
BACKGROUND: Human hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (hHFMSCs) isolated from hair follicles possess multilineage differentiation potential. OCT4 is a gene critically associated with pluripotency properties. The cell morphology and adhesion of hHFMSCs significantly changed after transduction of OCT4 and two subpopulations emerged, including adherent cells and floating cell. Floating cells cultured in hematopoietic induction medium and stimulated with erythropoetic growth factors could transdifferentiate into mature erythrocytes, whereas adherent cells formed negligible hematopoietic colonies. The aim of this study was to reveal the role of cell morphology and adhesion on erythropoiesis induced by OCT4 in hHFMSCs and to characterize the molecular mechanisms involved. METHODS: Floating cell was separated from adherent cell by centrifugation of the upper medium during cell culture. Cell size was observed through flow cytometry and cell adhesion was tested by disassociation and adhesion assays. RNA sequencing was performed to detect genome-wide transcriptomes and identify differentially expressed genes. GO enrichment analysis and KEGG pathway analysis were performed to analysis the functions and pathways enriched by differentially expressed genes. The expression of tight junction core members was verified by qPCR and Western blot. A regulatory network was constructed to figure out the relationship between cell adhesin, cytoskeleton, pluripotency, and hematopoiesis. RESULTS: The overexpression of OCT4 influenced the morphology and adhesion of hHFMSCs. Transcripts in floating cells and adherent cells are quite different. Data analysis showed that upregulated genes in floating cells were mainly related to pluripotency, germ layer development (including hematopoiesis lineage development), and downregulated genes were mainly related to cell adhesion, cell junctions, and the cytoskeleton. Most molecules of the tight junction (TJ) pathway were downregulated and molecular homeostasis of the TJ was disturbed, as CLDNs were disrupted, and JAMs and TJPs were upregulated. The dynamic expression of cell adhesion-related gene E-cadherin and cytoskeleton-related gene ACTN2 might cause different morphology and adhesion. Finally, a regulatory network centered to OCT4 was constructed, which elucidated that he TJ pathway critically bridges pluripotency and hematopoiesis in a TJP1-dependent way. CONCLUSIONS: Regulations of cell morphology and adhesion via the TJ pathway conducted by OCT4 might modulate hematopoiesis in hHFMSCs, thus developing potential mechanism of erythropoiesis in vitro.

33249152
Green fabrication of seedbed-like Flammulina velutipes polysaccharides-derived scaffolds accelerating full-thickness skin wound healing accompanied by hair follicle regeneration.
A novel seedbed-like scaffold was firstly fabricated by the "frozen sectioning" processing method using Flammulina velutipes as a raw material. The Flammulina velutipes polysaccharides scaffold is composed of a natural structure imitating the "ground" (connected and aligned hollow tubes with porous walls). Meanwhile, its biologically active components include polysaccharides and proteins, mimicking the "plant nutrition" in the seedbed. To further optimize the ground and nutrition components, Flammulina velutipes polysaccharides-derived scaffolds (FPDSs) were fabricated via the treatment of original Flammulina velutipes polysaccharides scaffold (labeled FPS) by NaOH, cysteine (labeled as FPS/NaOH, FPS/Cys, respectively). FPDSs were characterized by SEM, FTIR, XRD, water absorption and retention, and mechanical evaluations. From the results, FPS/NaOH and FPS/Cys lost the characteristic big tubes of original strips and had higher water absorption capacities comparing to FPS. Simultaneously, FPS/NaOH had better ductility, FPS/Cys had showed increased stiffness. Biological activities of FPDSs were tested against different types of bacteria exhibiting excellent anti-bacterial activity, and FPS/NaOH and FPS/Cys had dramatically higher anti-bacterial activity than FPS. The cytocompatibility of FPDSs was evaluated utilizing mouse fibroblast cell line (L929), and all FPDSs showed good cytocompatibility. The FPDSs were further applied to a rat full-thickness skin wound model, and they all exhibited obviously accelerated re-epithelialization, among which FPS/NaOH showed the greatest efficiency. FPS/NaOH could shorten the wound-healing process as evidenced by dynamic alterations of the expression levels of specific stagewise markers in the healing areas. Similarly, FPS/NaOH can efficiently induce hair follicle regeneration in the healing skin tissues. In summary, FPDSs exhibit potential functions as seedbeds to promote the regeneration of the "seed" including hair follicles and injured skin, opening a new avenue for wound healing.

33259912
Androgens downregulate BMP2 impairing the inductive role of dermal papilla cells on hair follicle stem cells differentiation.
Hair follicle cyclical regeneration is regulated by epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. During androgenetic alopecia (AGA), hair follicle stem cells (HFSC) differentiation is impaired by deregulation of dermal papilla cells (DPC) secreted factors. We analyzed androgen influence on BMPs expression in DPC and their effect on HFSC differentiation to hair lineage. Androgens downregulated BMP2 and BMP4 in DPC spheroids. Addition of BMP2 restored alkaline phosphatase activity, marker of hair-inductivity in DPC, and DPC-induced HFSC differentiation, both inhibited by androgens. Concomitantly, in differentiating HFSC, an upregulation of BMPRIa and BMPRII receptors and nuclear beta-catenin accumulation, indicative of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway activation, were detected. Our results present BMP2 as an androgen-downregulated paracrine factor that contributes to DPC inductivity and favors DPC-induced HFSC differentiation to hair lineage, possibly through a crosstalk with Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. A comprehensive understanding of androgen-deregulated DPC factors and their effects on differentiating HFSC would help to improve treatments for AGA.

33333220
Characterization and functional analysis of SMAD2 regulation in hair follicle cycle in Angora rabbits.
Hair follicle (HF) development is characterized by periodic growth cycles regulated by numerous factors. We previously showed that SMAD2 might be involved in the HF growth cycle in Angora rabbits. However, its extra role in the HF growth and development remains obscure. In this study, we cloned the complete coding sequence (CDS) of the Angora rabbit SMAD2 gene. Within SMAD2 CDS, we identified the open reading frame (ORF) had a length of 1314 bp and encoding 437 amino acids. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that the SMAD2 protein is unstable and hydrophilic, and predominatelylocalizesin the cell nucleus. We identified that SMAD2 expression was elevated in the telogen phase of the during HF cycle. The knockdown and overexpression of SMAD2 could regulate HF growth and development related genes, such as WNT2, FGF2, and LEF1.Furthermore, SMAD2 may upregulate TGF-beta signaling pathway-related genes, including TFDP1, E2F4, and RBL1. In conclusion, our results indicate that SMAD2 plays a vital role in HF development by regulating the TGF-beta signaling pathway.

33417145
Ent-kaurane-type diterpenoids from Isodonis Herba activate human hair follicle dermal papilla cells proliferation via the Akt/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin transduction pathway.
A methanol extract from Isodonis Herba demonstrated significant proliferative effect on human hair follicle dermal papilla cells (HFDPC, % of control: 150.0 +- 2.0% at 20 microg/mL, p < 0.01). From the extract, 14 ent-kaurane-type diterpenoids (1-14), two abietane-type diterpenoids (15 and 16) and four triterpenoids (17-20) were isolated. Among the isolates, enmein (1, 160.9 +- 3.0% at 20 microM, p < 0.01), isodocarpin (2, 169.3 +- 4.9% at 5 microM, p < 0.01), nodosin (4, 160.5 +- 12.4% at 20 microM, p < 0.01), and oridonin (8, 165.4 +- 10.6% at 10 microM, p < 0.01) showed the proliferative effects. The principal component enmein (1) activated the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA, upregulated the production of VEGF and increased levels of phospho-Akt, phospho-GSK-3beta, and beta-catenin accumulation in HFDPC, which could be the mechanism of these activate proliferation activity.

33430889
Neural progenitor cell-derived nanovesicles promote hair follicle growth via miR-100.
BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence shows that mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) hold great promise to promote hair growth. However, large-scale production of EVs is still a challenge. Recently, exosome-mimetic nanovesicles (NV) prepared by extruding cells have emerged as an alternative strategy for clinical-scale production. Here, ReNcell VM (ReN) cells, a neural progenitor cell line was serially extruded to produce NV. RESULTS: ReN-NV were found to promote dermal papilla cell (DPC) proliferation. In addition, in a mouse model of depilation-induced hair regeneration, ReN-NV were injected subcutaneously, resulting in an acceleration of hair follicle (HF) cycling transition at the site. The underlying mechanism was indicated to be the activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Furthermore, miR-100 was revealed to be abundant in ReN-NV and significantly up-regulated in DPCs receiving ReN-NV treatment. miR-100 inhibition verified its important role in ReN-NV-induced beta-catenin signaling activation. CONCLUSION: These results provide an alternative agent to EVs and suggest a strategy for hair growth therapy.

33436760
Hair follicle germs containing vascular endothelial cells for hair regenerative medicine.
Hair regenerative medicine has emerged as a promising approach for the treatment of severe hair loss. Recent advances in three-dimensional tissue engineering, such as formation of hair follicle germs (HFGs), have considerably improved hair regeneration after transplantation in animal models. Here, we proposed an approach for fabricating HFGs containing vascular endothelial cells. Epithelial, dermal papilla, and vascular endothelial cells initially formed a single aggregate, which subsequently became a dumbbell-shaped HFG, wherein the vascular endothelial cells localized in the region of dermal papilla cells. The HFGs containing vascular endothelial cells exhibited higher expression of hair morphogenesis-related genes in vitro, along with higher levels of hair shaft regeneration upon transplantation to the dorsal side of nude mice, than those without vascular endothelial cells. The generated hair follicles represented functional characteristics, such as piloerection, as well as morphological characteristics comparable to those of natural hair shafts. This approach may provide a promising strategy for fabricating tissue grafts with higher hair inductivity for hair regenerative medicine.

33503918
The Middle Part of the Plucked Hair Follicle Outer Root Sheath Is Identified as an Area Rich in Lineage-Specific Stem Cell Markers.
Hair follicle outer root sheath (ORS) is a putative source of stem cells with therapeutic capacity. ORS contains several multipotent stem cell populations, primarily in the distal compartment of the bulge region. However, the bulge is routinely obtained using invasive isolation methods, which require human scalp tissue ex vivo. Non-invasive sampling has been standardized by means of the plucking procedure, enabling to reproducibly obtain the mid-ORS part. The mid-ORS shows potential for giving rise to multiple stem cell populations in vitro. To demonstrate the phenotypic features of distal, middle, and proximal ORS parts, gene and protein expression profiles were studied in physically separated portions. The mid-part of the ORS showed a comparable or higher NGFR, nestin/NES, CD34, CD73, CD44, CD133, CK5, PAX3, MITF, and PMEL expression on both protein and gene levels, when compared to the distal ORS part. Distinct subpopulations of cells exhibiting small and round morphology were characterized with flow cytometry as simultaneously expressing CD73/CD271, CD49f/CD105, nestin, and not CK10. Potentially, these distinct subpopulations can give rise to cultured neuroectodermal and mesenchymal stem cell populations in vitro. In conclusion, the mid part of the ORS holds the potential for yielding multiple stem cells, in particular mesenchymal stem cells.

33725480
Mechanical instability of adherens junctions overrides intrinsic quiescence of hair follicle stem cells.
Vinculin, a mechanotransducer associated with both adherens junctions (AJs) and focal adhesions (FAs), plays a central role in force transmission through cell-cell and cell-substratum contacts. We generated the conditional knockout (cKO) of vinculin in murine skin that results in the loss of bulge stem cell (BuSC) quiescence and promotes continual cycling of the hair follicles. Surprisingly, we find that the AJs in vinculin cKO cells are mechanically weak and impaired in force generation despite increased junctional expression of E-cadherin and alpha-catenin. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that vinculin functions by keeping alpha-catenin in a stretched/open conformation, which in turn regulates the retention of YAP1, another potent mechanotransducer and regulator of cell proliferation, at the AJs. Altogether, our data provide mechanistic insights into the hitherto-unexplored regulatory link between the mechanical stability of cell junctions and contact-inhibition-mediated maintenance of BuSC quiescence.

33748117
Establishment of an Efficient Primary Culture System for Human Hair Follicle Stem Cells Using the Rho-Associated Protein Kinase Inhibitor Y-27632.
Background: Hair follicle tissue engineering is a promising strategy for treating hair loss. Human hair follicle stem cells (hHFSCs), which play a key role in the hair cycle, have potential applications in regenerative medicine. However, previous studies did not achieve efficient hHFSC expansion in vitro using feeder cells. Therefore, there is a need to develop an efficient primary culture system for the expansion and maintenance of hHFSCs. Methods: The hHFSCs were obtained by two-step proteolytic digestion combined with microscopy. The cell culture dishes were coated with human fibronectin and inoculated with hHFSCs. The hHFSCs were harvested using a differential enrichment procedure. The effect of Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor Y-27632, supplemented in keratinocyte serum-free medium (K-SFM), on adhesion, proliferation, and stemness of hHFSCs and the underlying molecular mechanisms were evaluated. Results: The hHFSCs cultured in K-SFM, supplemented with Y-27632, exhibited enhanced adhesion and proliferation. Additionally, Y-27632 treatment maintained the stemness of hHFSCs and promoted the ability of hHFSCs to regenerate hair follicles in vivo. However, Y-27632-induced proliferation and stemness in hHFSCs were conditional and reversible. Furthermore, Y-27632 maintained propagation and stemness of hHFSCs through the ERK/MAPK pathway. Conclusion: An efficient short-term culture system for primary hHFSCs was successfully established using human fibronectin and the ROCK inhibitor Y-27632, which promoted the proliferation, maintained the stemness of hHFSCs and promoted the ability to regenerate hair follicles in vivo. The xenofree culturing method used in this study provided a large number of high-quality seed cells, which have applications in hair follicle tissue engineering and stem cell therapy.

33755111
Chi-miR-370-3p regulates hair follicle morphogenesis of Inner Mongolian cashmere goats.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of 22 nucleotide (nt) noncoding RNAs, negatively regulate mRNA posttranscriptional modification in various biological processes. Morphogenesis of skin hair follicles in cashmere goats is a dynamic process involving many key signaling molecules, but the associated cellular biological mechanisms induced by these key signaling molecules have not been reported. In this study, differential expression, bioinformatics, and Gene Ontology/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed on miRNA expression profiles of Inner Mongolian cashmere goats at 45, 55, and 65 days during the fetal period, and chi-miR-370-3p was identified and investigated further. Real-time fluorescence quantification (qRT-PCR), dual luciferase reporting, and Western blotting results showed that transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGF-betaR2) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) were the target genes of chi-miR-370-3p. Chi-miR-370-3p also regulated the expression of TGF-betaR2 and FGFR2 at mRNA and protein levels in epithelial cells and dermal fibroblasts. DNA staining, Cell Counting Kit-8, and fluorescein-labelled Annexin V results showed that chi-miR-370-3p inhibited the proliferation of epithelial cells and fibroblasts but had no effect on apoptosis. Cell scratch test results showed that chi-miR-370-3p promoted the migration of epithelial cells and fibroblasts. Chi-miR-370-3p inhibits the proliferation of epithelial cells and fibroblasts by targeting TGF-betaR2 and FGFR2, thereby improving cell migration ability and ultimately regulating the fate of epithelial cells and dermal fibroblasts to develop the placode and dermal condensate, inducing hair follicle morphogenesis.

33787651
Cell cycle regulation in human hair follicle dermal papilla cells using nonthermal atmospheric pressure plasma-activated medium.
ABSTRACT: Nonthermal atmospheric pressure (NAP) plasmas have recently been developed and have been used for wound healing, blood coagulation, and cancer therapy. NAP plasmas can induce either cell proliferation or cell death, depending on the dose. Due to their efficacy and application easily, plasma activated mediums (PAMs) have been used in human cells recently.In atmosphere, NAP plasmas react with molecular content of air such as N2, O2, H2O vapor, etc, and generate a variety of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. High reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels promote damage of cellular DNA, proteins, and lipids. Such damage can lead to cell-cycle arrest, and cellular death. However, low levels of ROS have been caused an increase in cell cycle progression.Human skin is arranged in 3 layers, including (from top to bottom) the epidermis (and its appendages), the dermis, and the hypodermis. Human dermal papilla cells (DPCs) are located in the middle or even deep part of the dermis. DPCs play a key role in hair regeneration, and a lot of effort have been made to promote DPC hair formation ability. DPC is increased proliferation, delayed senescence, and enhanced hair by depending on the amount of ROS through the NAP-PAM treatment.In this study, we used NAP plasmas to the human hair follicle DPCs exposed from 0 to 20 minutes, so we were investigated the effects of PAM on cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. After NAP-PAM treatment for 24 hours, cell cycle was arrested in the G0/G1 phase. The NAP-PAM-treated human hair follicle DPCs recovered gradually after 48 hours of the treatment compared to the untreated cells.Therefore, this approach offers promising results for further application of NAP-PAM in clinical dermatology. In future, it can be applied clinically in the form of active water that can delay the progression of baldness and alopecia areata.

33790465
Corticosterone inhibits GAS6 to govern hair follicle stem-cell quiescence.
Chronic, sustained exposure to stressors can profoundly affect tissue homeostasis, although the mechanisms by which these changes occur are largely unknown. Here we report that the stress hormone corticosterone-which is derived from the adrenal gland and is the rodent equivalent of cortisol in humans-regulates hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) quiescence and hair growth in mice. In the absence of systemic corticosterone, HFSCs enter substantially more rounds of the regeneration cycle throughout life. Conversely, under chronic stress, increased levels of corticosterone prolong HFSC quiescence and maintain hair follicles in an extended resting phase. Mechanistically, corticosterone acts on the dermal papillae to suppress the expression of Gas6, a gene that encodes the secreted factor growth arrest specific 6. Restoring Gas6 expression overcomes the stress-induced inhibition of HFSC activation and hair growth. Our work identifies corticosterone as a systemic inhibitor of HFSC activity through its effect on the niche, and demonstrates that the removal of such inhibition drives HFSCs into frequent regeneration cycles, with no observable defects in the long-term.

33952856
Indole Glycosides from Calanthe discolor with Proliferative Activity on Human Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells.
A methanol extract from the underground part of Calanthe discolor Lindl. (Orchidaceae) demonstrated significant proliferative activity on human hair follicle dermal papilla cells (HFDPC, % of control: 120.8 +- 0.2%) at 100 microg/mL against HFDPC. Through bioassay-guided separation of the extract, a new indole glycoside named 6'-O-beta-D-apiofuranosylindican (1) was isolated along with six known compounds (2-7) including three indole glycosides. The stereostructure of 1 was elucidated based on its spectroscopic properties and chemical characteristics. Among the isolates, 1 (110.0 +- 1.0%), glucoindican (3, 123.9 +- 6.8%), and calanthoside (4, 158.6 +- 7.1%) showed significant proliferative activity at 100 microM. Furthermore, the active indole glycosides (1, 3, and 4) upregulated the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor-7 (FGF-7) mRNA and protein in HFDPC, which could be the mechanism of their proliferative activity.

33972536
Symmetry breaking of tissue mechanics in wound induced hair follicle regeneration of laboratory and spiny mice.
Tissue regeneration is a process that recapitulates and restores organ structure and function. Although previous studies have demonstrated wound-induced hair neogenesis (WIHN) in laboratory mice (Mus), the regeneration is limited to the center of the wound unlike those observed in African spiny (Acomys) mice. Tissue mechanics have been implicated as an integral part of tissue morphogenesis. Here, we use the WIHN model to investigate the mechanical and molecular responses of laboratory and African spiny mice, and report these models demonstrate opposing trends in spatiotemporal morphogenetic field formation with association to wound stiffness landscapes. Transcriptome analysis and K14-Cre-Twist1 transgenic mice show the Twist1 pathway acts as a mediator for both epidermal-dermal interactions and a competence factor for periodic patterning, differing from those used in development. We propose a Turing model based on tissue stiffness that supports a two-scale tissue mechanics process: (1) establishing a morphogenetic field within the wound bed (mm scale) and (2) symmetry breaking of the epidermis and forming periodically arranged hair primordia within the morphogenetic field (mum scale). Thus, we delineate distinct chemo-mechanical events in building a Turing morphogenesis-competent field during WIHN of laboratory and African spiny mice and identify its evo-devo advantages with perspectives for regenerative medicine.

33973637
N1-acetylspermidine is a determinant of hair follicle stem cell fate.
Stem cell differentiation is accompanied by increased mRNA translation. The rate of protein biosynthesis is influenced by the polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine, which are essential for cell growth and stem cell maintenance. However, the role of polyamines as endogenous effectors of stem cell fate and whether they act through translational control remains obscure. Here, we investigate the function of polyamines in stem cell fate decisions using hair follicle stem cell (HFSC) organoids. Compared to progenitor cells, HFSCs showed lower translation rates, correlating with reduced polyamine levels. Surprisingly, overall polyamine depletion decreased translation but did not affect cell fate. In contrast, specific depletion of natural polyamines mediated by spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT; also known as SAT1) activation did not reduce translation but enhanced stemness. These results suggest a translation-independent role of polyamines in cell fate regulation. Indeed, we identified N1-acetylspermidine as a determinant of cell fate that acted through increasing self-renewal, and observed elevated N1-acetylspermidine levels upon depilation-mediated HFSC proliferation and differentiation in vivo. Overall, this study delineates the diverse routes of polyamine metabolism-mediated regulation of stem cell fate decisions. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.

34298337
The role of CTHRC1 in hair follicle regenerative capacity restored by plantar dermis homogenate.
Restoration of hair follicle (HF) regenerative capacity is the cornerstone in tissue engineering for the loss of regenerative capacity during in vitro expansion of skin-derived precursors (SKPs). Microenvironmental cues facilitated tissue or organ regeneration offers a potential strategy to overcome this difficulty. In our previous work, plantar dermis matrix homogenate (PD) has been proved to induce sweat glands regeneration both in vivo and in vitro. Here, we found PD also restore regenerative capacity of culture impaired HF spheroids (IHFS). Further, followed by our previous iTRAQ results, the CTHRC1 was identified as a potential regulator in PD facilitated restorative effects in HF regeneration. Knockout of Cthrc1 impaired HF regenerative capacity in spheroids, decreased the diameter of HF in 28 postnatal days mice and shortened invagination of HF bud in 18 days of gestation mice. In IHFS and Cthrc1-/- spheroids, PD partially restored HF regenerative capacity while Cthrc1-/- PD (PDKO) has less or no effect. Taken together, PD is an effective microenvironmental cues for HF regenerative capacity restoration and CTHRC1 played an important role in HF regeneration.

34342114
The anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein regulates hair follicle stem cell function.
Maintaining the architecture, size and composition of an intact stem cell (SC) compartment is crucial for tissue homeostasis and regeneration throughout life. In mammalian skin, elevated expression of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein has been reported in hair follicle (HF) bulge SCs (BSCs), but its impact on SC function is unknown. Here, we show that systemic exposure of mice to the Bcl-2 antagonist ABT-199/venetoclax leads to the selective loss of suprabasal BSCs (sbBSCs), thereby disrupting cyclic HF regeneration. RNAseq analysis shows that the pro-apoptotic BH3-only proteins BIM and Bmf are upregulated in sbBSCs, explaining their addiction to Bcl-2 and the marked susceptibility to Bcl-2 antagonism. In line with these observations, conditional knockout of Bcl-2 in mouse epidermis elevates apoptosis in BSCs. In contrast, ectopic Bcl-2 expression blocks apoptosis during HF regression, resulting in the accumulation of quiescent SCs and delaying HF growth in mice. Strikingly, Bcl-2-induced changes in size and composition of the HF bulge accelerate tumour formation. Our study identifies a niche-instructive mechanism of Bcl-2-regulated apoptosis response that is required for SC homeostasis and tissue regeneration, and may suppress carcinogenesis.

34479087
Resident human dermal gammadeltaT-cells operate as stress-sentinels: Lessons from the hair follicle.
Murine gammadeltaT-cells have stress-surveillance functions and are implicated in autoimmunity. Yet, whether human gammadeltaT-cells are also stress sentinels and directly promote autoimmune responses in the skin is unknown. Using a novel (mini-)organ assay, we tested if human dermis resident gammadeltaT-cells can recognize stressed human scalp hair follicles (HFs) to promote an alopecia areata (AA)-like autoimmune response. Accordingly, we show that gammadeltaT-cells from healthy human scalp skin are activated (CD69+), up-regulate the expression of NKG2D and IFN-gamma, and become cytotoxic when co-cultured with autologous stressed HFs ex vivo. These autologous gammadeltaT-cells induce HF immune privilege collapse, dystrophy, and premature catagen, i.e. three hallmarks of the human autoimmune HF disorder, AA. This is mediated by CXCL12, MICA, and in part by IFN-gamma and CD1d. In conclusion, human dermal gammadeltaT-cells exert physiological stress-sentinel functions in human skin, where their excessive activity can promote autoimmunity towards stressed HFs that overexpress CD1d, CXCL12, and/or MICA.

34496034
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma signalling protects hair follicle stem cells from chemotherapy-induced apoptosis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition.
BACKGROUND: Permanent chemotherapy-induced alopecia (pCIA), for which preventive interventions remain limited, can manifest with scarring. While the underlying pathomechanisms of pCIA are unclear, depletion of epithelial hair follicle (HF) stem cells (eHFSCs) is likely to play a role. OBJECTIVES: To explore the hypothesis that, besides apoptosis, eHFSCs undergo pathological epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in pCIA, thus explaining the scarring phenotype. Furthermore, we tested whether a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma modulator could prevent pCIA-associated pathomechanisms. METHODS: Organ-cultured human scalp HFs were treated with the cyclophosphamide metabolite 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC). Additionally, HFs were pretreated with the agonistic PPAR-gamma modulator N-acetyl-GED-0507-34-Levo (NAGED), which has previously been shown to promote K15 expression and antagonize EMT in eHFSCs. RESULTS: In accordance with anticipated hair bulb cytotoxicity, dystrophy and catagen induction, 4-HC promoted apoptosis along with increased p53 expression, DNA damage and pathological EMT in keratin 15+ (K15) eHFSCs, as evidenced by decreased E-cadherin expression and the appearance of fibronectin+ and vimentin+ cells in the hair bulge. Pretreatment with NAGED protected against 4-HC-induced hair bulb cytotoxicity/dystrophy, and apoptosis, p53 upregulation and EMT in the bulge, thereby significantly preventing depletion of K15+ human eHFSCs ex vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Since a key cyclophosphamide metabolite alone suffices to damage and deplete human scalp eHFSCs by promoting apoptosis, DNA damage and EMT ex vivo, strategies to prevent pCIA need to target these pathomechanisms. Given the ability of NAGED to prevent chemotherapy-induced eHFSCs damage ex vivo, our study introduces the stimulation of PPAR-gamma signalling as a novel intervention strategy for the prevention of pCIA.

34754958
Pyridoxine regulates hair follicle development via the PI3K/Akt, Wnt and Notch signalling pathways in rex rabbits.
This study was conducted to evaluate the effect of pyridoxine on the development of hair follicles in Rex rabbits and the underlying molecular mechanism. Two hundred 3-month-old Rex rabbits were randomly divided into 5 groups and fed diets supplemented with 0, 5, 10, 20, or 40 mg/kg pyridoxine. The hair follicle density on the dorsal skin and the gene and protein expression levels of components of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (PKB or Akt), Wnt, Notch and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling pathways were measured. In addition, free hair follicles were isolated from Rex rabbits and cultured with pyridoxine in vitro to measure hair shaft growth. Furthermore, dermal papilla cells (DPC) were isolated from the skin of Rex rabbits and cultured with pyridoxine in vitro to measure the gene and protein expression levels of components of the PI3K/Akt, Wnt, Notch and BMP signalling pathways. The results showed that the addition of dietary pyridoxine significantly increased the total follicle density, secondary follicle density, and secondary-to-primary ratio (S/P, P < 0.05), that the growth ratio of hair stems was promoted by pyridoxine in basic culture medium, and that the growth length of tentacle hair follicles cultured in the pyridoxine group was longer than that in the control group (P < 0.05). In addition, pyridoxine changed the DPC cycle progression and promoted cell proliferation, and appropriate concentrations of pyridoxine (10 and 20 mumol/L) significantly inhibited cell apoptosis (P < 0.05). Pyridoxine significantly affected the gene expression of components of the PI3K/Akt, Wnt and Notch signalling pathways in the skin and DPC of Rex rabbits (P < 0.05), increased the levels of phosphorylated catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1) and Akt, and decreased the level of phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK-3beta) (P < 0.05). Therefore, the molecular mechanism by which pyridoxine promotes hair follicle density in Rex rabbits probably occurs through activation of the PI3K/Akt, Wnt and Notch signalling pathways, prolonging hair follicle growth and delaying the onset of telogen.

35283766
Hair Graying Regulators Beyond Hair Follicle.
Hair graying is an interesting physiological alteration associated with aging and certain diseases. The occurrence is due to depigmentation of the hair caused by depletion and dysfunction of melanocyte stem cells (MeSCs). However, what causes the depletion and dysfunction of MeSCs remains unclear. MeSCs reside in the hair follicle bulge which provides the appropriate niche for the homeostasis of various stem cells within hair follicle including MeSCs. In addition to local signaling from the cells composed of hair follicle, emerging evidences have shown that nerves, adipocytes and immune cells outside of hair follicle per se also play important roles in the regulation of MeSCs. Here, we review the recent studies on different cells in the MeSCs microenvironment beyond the hair follicle per se, discuss their function in regulating hair graying and potentially novel treatments of hair graying.

35395929
Extracellular vesicles from hair follicle-derived mesenchymal stromal cells: isolation, characterization and therapeutic potential for chronic wound healing.
BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) and their extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) have demonstrated to elicit immunomodulatory and pro-regenerative properties that are beneficial for the treatment of chronic wounds. Thanks to different mediators, MSC-EVs have shown to play an important role in the proliferation, migration and cell survival of different skin cell populations. However, there is still a big bid to achieve the most effective, suitable and available source of MSC-EVs. METHODS: We isolated, characterized and compared medium-large EVs (m-lEVs) and small EVs (sEVs) obtained from hair follicle-derived MSCs (HF-MSCs) against the gold standard in regenerative medicine, EVs isolated from adipose tissue-derived MSCs (AT-MSCs). RESULTS: We demonstrated that HF-EVs, as well as AT-EVs, expressed typical MSC-EVs markers (CD9, CD44, CD63, CD81 and CD105) among other different functional markers. We showed that both cell types were able to increase human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) proliferation and migration. Moreover, both MSC-EVs were able to increase angiogenesis in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and protect HDFs exposed to a hyperglycemic environment from oxidative stress and cytotoxicity. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, HF-EVs demonstrated to exhibit comparable potential to that of AT-EVs as promising candidates in the treatment of chronic wounds.

35469946
Bacterial cellulose/soybean protein isolate composites with promoted inflammation inhibition, angiogenesis and hair follicle regeneration for wound healing.
Soybean protein, as a safe and low-cost alternative to animal protein, attracts increasing attention in wound healing. In the present study, beta-conglycinin (7S) and glycinin (11S) with high solubility were obtained through separation of soybean protein. Afterward, 7S or 11S modified bacterial cellulose (BC) composites were produced by self-assembly method. Results confirmed the successful self-assembly of soybean protein isolates on the nanofibers of BC. The surface roughness and hydrophilicity of BC/7S and BC/11S decreased compared with native BC. Soybean protein could be steadily released from BC/7S and BC/11S and BC/11S released more soybean proteins than BC/7S. In vitro, BC/7S and BC/11S supported fibroblasts attachment and promoted fibroblasts proliferation and type I collagen expression. In vivo, BC/7S and BC/11S facilitated wound healing and collagen deposition, enhanced angiogenesis and hair follicle regeneration, as well as reduced scar formation and inflammation in full-thickness skin wounds of rats. Moreover, wounds treated with BC/11S showed a faster wound healing rate and more collagen depositions than those of BC/7S, which may be attributed to the larger considerable amount of soybean protein released by BC/11S. These results indicate that BC/7S and BC/11S are potential candidates for wound dressings.

35737933
M-CSF-stimulated myeloid cells can convert into epithelial cells to participate in re-epithelialization and hair follicle regeneration during dermal wound healing.
Dermal wound healing is a complex process which requires the interaction of many cell types and mediators in a highly sophisticated temporal sequence. Myeloid cells which compose of a significant proportion of the inflammatory cells infiltrate to the to a wound site where they play important roles in clearance of damaged tissue and microorganisms. Myeloid cells have the capacity to be converted into fibroblast-like cells and endothelial cells during wound healing process. However, whether myeloid cells in wounds can convert into epithelial cells where they contribute to healing process is not clear. In this study, we performed double immunofluorescent staining with antibodies for hematopoietic cells and keratinocytes as well as cell tracing technique to investigate hematopoietic cell conversion. The result showed that during the healing process, some of the CD45-positive hematopoietic cells also expressed keratin 14, a marker for keratinocytes. Further, double immunofluorescent staining in dermal wounds, using CD11b and K14 antibodies indicated that CD11b-positive myeloid cells were the origin of newly generated epithelial cells. Through tracing injected labeled splenocyte-derived myeloid cells in skin, we confirmed that myeloid cells were able to convert into keratinocytes in repaired skin. Furthermore, our results from in vivo experiments provided new information on contribution of myeloid cells in hair follicle regeneration. In conclusion, this work highlights the myeloid cell contributions in wound repair and hair follicle regeneration through conversion of M-CSF-stimulated CD11b-positive myeloid cells into epithelial cells in a murine model.

35774980
Identification of Genes Related to Hair Follicle Cycle Development in Inner Mongolia Cashmere Goat by WGCNA.
Cashmere goat from Inner Mongolia is an excellent local breed in China, and the related cashmere product is a kind of precious textile raw material with high price. Cashmere is generated from secondary hair follicles, which has obvious annual periodicity and includes three different stages: anagen, catagen, and telogen. Therefore, we investigated skin transcriptome data for 12 months using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to explore essential modules, pathways, and genes responsible for the periodic growth and development of secondary hair follicles. A total of 17 co-expression modules were discovered by WGCNA, and there is a strong correlation between steelblue module and month (0.65, p = 3E-09), anagen (0.52, p = 1E-05), telogen (-0.6, p = 8E-08). Gene expression was generally high during late anagen to catagen (June to December), while expression was downregulated from telogen to early anagen (January-May), which is similar to the growth rule of hair follicle cycle. KEGG pathway enrichment analyses of the genes of steelblue module indicated that genes are mainly enriched in Cell cycle, Wnt signaling pathway, p53 signaling pathway and other important signal pathways. These genes were also significantly enriched in GO functional annotation of the cell cycle, microtubule movement, microtubule binding, tubulin binding, and so on. Ten genes (WIF1, WNT11, BAMBI, FZD10, NKD1, LEF1, CCND3, E2F3, CDC6, and CDC25A) were selected from these modules, and further identified as candidate biomarkers to regulate periodic development of hair follicles using qRT-PCR. The Wnt signaling pathway and Cell cycle play an important role in the periodic development of hair follicles. Ten genes were identified as essential functional molecules related to periodic development of hair follicle. These findings laid a foundation for understanding molecular mechanisms in biological functions such as hair follicle development and hair growth in cashmere goats.

35782323
Hair follicle-targeting drug delivery strategies for the management of hair follicle-associated disorders.
The hair follicle is not only a critical penetration route in percutaneous absorption but also has been recognized to be a target for hair follicle-associated disorders, such as androgenetic alopecia (AGA) and acne vulgaris. Hair follicle-targeting drug delivery systems allow for controlled drug release and enhance therapeutic efficacy with minimal side effects, exerting a promising method for the management of hair follicle-associated dysfunctions. Therefore, they have obtained much attention in several fields of research in recent years. This review gives an overview of potential follicle-targeting drug delivery formulations currently applied based on the particularities of the hair follicles, including a comprehensive assessment of their preclinical and clinical performance.

35938157
Hair Follicle Morphogenesis During Embryogenesis, Neogenesis, and Organogenesis.
Hair follicles are mini organs that repeat the growth and regression cycle continuously. These dynamic changes are driven by the regulation of stem cells via their multiple niche components. To build the complex structure of hair follicles and surrounding niches, sophisticated morphogenesis is required during embryonic development. This review will explore how hair follicles are formed and maintained through dynamic cellular changes and diverse signaling pathways. In addition, comparison of differences in stem cells and surrounding niche components during embryogenesis, neogenesis, and organogenesis will provide a comprehensive understanding of mechanisms for hair follicle generation and insights into skin regeneration.

23800212
Comparative study of hair follicle morphology in eight mammalian species and humans.
BACKGROUND: The objective of the present study was the investigation of hair follicle morphology in eight mammalian species in order to evaluate the species-specific contribution of hair follicles to skin penetration particularly with regard to the utilization of the different animal species as skin models for human skin. METHODS: Cyanoacrylate skin surface biopsy method (CSSB), light microscopy and also digital photography were used for the measurements of hair follicle morphology. RESULTS: The results revealed species-specific differences regarding the pattern of hair follicle distribution and also differences with regard to hair follicle parameters and characteristics. The results also showed that hair follicles generally possess enormous reservoir capacities, regarding the follicular volume. In all examined species, hair follicles reached at least one-fifth of stratum corneum storage capacity. The results were compared with human data obtained in a previous study. CONCLUSION: With regard to hair follicle morphology and skin structure, the porcine skin seems to be the most appropriate skin model for human skin analog to previous investigations, whereas the skin of dog, cat, and rabbit showed the most significant differences.

23955574
Neural crest stem cell-specific deletion of the Pygopus2 gene modulates hair follicle development.
We show that neural crest stem cells affect mouse hair follicle development. During embryogenesis hair follicle induction is regulated by complex reciprocal and functionally redundant signals between epidermis and dermis, which remain to be fully understood. Canonical Wnt signalling is a hallmark of neural crest cells and also a prerequisite for hair follicle induction prior to hair placode formation in the epidermis. As neural crest stem cells invade the epidermis during early embryonic development we aimed at determining whether neural crest cells affect hair follicle development. To attenuate, but not silence, canonical Wnt signalling specifically in neural crest cells, we analyzed Wnt1-cre(+/-)::Pygo2(-/-) mice in which the beta-catenin co-activator gene, Pygopus 2 (Pygo2), is deleted specifically in neural crest cells. Both, hair density and hair thickness were reduced in mutant mice. Furthermore, hair development was delayed and the relative ratio of hair types was affected. There was a decrease in zig-zag hairs and an increase in awl hairs. Mouse neural crest stem cells expressed ectodysplasin, an essential effector in the formation of zig-zag hair. Taken together, our data support the novel notion that neural crest cells are involved in the earliest stages of hair follicle development. 

24296159
VEGF165 modulates proliferation, adhesion, migration and differentiation of cultured human outer root sheath cells from central hair follicle epithelium through VEGFR-2 activation in vitro.
BACKGROUND: The functional state of vasculature is tightly controlled by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2). Recent studies revealed that VEGFR-2 is expressed on hair follicle keratinocytes. OBJECTIVE: We proposed to investigate its effect on proliferation, adhesion and migration of cultured human outer root sheath cells from central hair follicle epithelium. METHODS: These studies were undertaken in vitro using human outer root sheath cells from central hair follicle epithelium, immunohistochemistry analysis, immunofluorescence microscopy, western blot analysis, MTT, trans well analysis, and RT-PCR. RESULTS: Our results show that VEGFR-2 is expressed in these cells in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, proliferation and migration of cultured human outer root sheath cells from central hair follicle epithelium is increased by VEGF165, while homotypic adhesion is decreased but heterotypic adhesion is increased. VEGF165 upregulates integrin beta1 but dowregulates lgr6 expression. In addition, phosphorylation of VEGFR-2, Erk1/2, c-Jun and p38, are increased following VEGF165 treatment and these effects are reversed by a VEGFR-2 neutralizing antibody. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest a role of VEGF/VEGFR-2 beyond angiogenesis in hair follicle regulation.

24800266
On the role of survivin as a stem cell biomarker of canine  hair follicle and related tumours.
BACKGROUND: Survivin has been identified as one of the most cancer-specific molecules, with a dual function of apoptosis inhibitor and orchestrator of cell division. HYPOTHESIS/OBJECTIVES: Based on our recent results obtained during the study of the role of survivin in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, we investigate its potential role in maintenance of stemness in both the normal canine hair follicle and related tumours. METHODS: We performed a simultaneous evaluation, by immunofluorescence, of the expression of survivin and CK15. CK15 was selected as a marker for epidermal and hair follicle stem cells, based on its ability to identify hair follicle stem cells in the normal hair follicle and in canine follicular tumours. In this study, six cases were selected from the cases of hair follicle tumours evaluated in previous studies, based on the highest immunoreactivity for survivin and CK15. Three samples of healthy canine skin were also included as a normal control. RESULTS: A partial co-localization of the molecules was observed in normal hair follicles, as well as in trichoepitheliomas and trichoblastomas. In particular, a different co-expression was observed in relationship to the hair follicle cycle stage. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: These findings suggest that survivin could play an important role in the maintenance of the hair follicle cycle as well as in tumour initiation and maintenance of cancer stem cells.

24999588
Complex changes in the apoptotic and cell differentiation programs during initiation of the hair follicle response to chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy has severe side effects in normal rapidly proliferating organs, such as hair follicles, and causes massive apoptosis in hair matrix keratinocytes followed by hair loss. To define the molecular signature of hair follicle response to chemotherapy, human scalp hair follicles cultured ex vivo were treated with doxorubicin (DXR), and global microarray analysis was performed 3 hours after treatment. Microarray data revealed changes in expression of 504 genes in DXR-treated hair follicles versus controls. Among these genes, upregulations of several tumor necrosis factor family of apoptotic receptors (FAS, TRAIL (tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) receptors 1/2), as well as of a large number of keratin-associated protein genes, were seen after DXR treatment. Hair follicle apoptosis induced by DXR was significantly inhibited by either TRAIL-neutralizing antibody or caspase-8 inhibitor, thus suggesting a previously unreported role for TRAIL receptor signaling in mediating DXR-induced hair loss. These data demonstrate that the early phase of the hair follicle response to DXR includes upregulation of apoptosis-associated markers, as well as substantial reorganization of the terminal differentiation programs in hair follicle keratinocytes. These data provide an important platform for further studies toward the design of effective approaches for the management of chemotherapy-induced hair loss.

25010141
CD133 expression correlates with membrane beta-catenin and E-cadherin loss from human hair follicle placodes during morphogenesis.
Genetic studies suggest that the major events of human hair follicle development are similar to those in mice, but detailed analyses of this process are lacking. In mice, hair follicle placode "budding" is initiated by invagination of Wnt-induced epithelium into the underlying mesenchyme. Modification of adherens junctions (AJs) is clearly required for budding. Snail-mediated downregulation of AJ component E-cadherin is important for placode budding in mice. Beta-catenin, another AJ component, has been more difficult to study owing to its essential functions in Wnt signaling, a prerequisite for hair follicle placode induction. Here, we show that a subset of human invaginating hair placode cells expresses the stem cell marker CD133 during early morphogenesis. CD133 associates with membrane beta-catenin in early placodes, and its continued expression correlates with loss of beta-catenin and E-cadherin from the cell membrane at a time when E-cadherin transcriptional repressors Snail and Slug are not implicated. Stabilization of CD133 via anti-CD133 antibody treatment of human fetal scalp explants depresses beta-catenin and E-cadherin membrane localization. We discuss this unique correlation and suggest a hypothetical model whereby CD133 promotes morphogenesis in early hair follicle placodes through the localized removal of membrane beta-catenin proteins and subsequent AJ dissolution.

25036348
Growth and viability of Liaoning Cashmere goat hair follicles during the annual hair follicle cycle.
Here, we studied hair follicle development of Liaoning Cashmere goats. Every month for 1 year, skin samples were collected from five 1.5-year-old female goats, and made into paraffin sections. A number of parameters were measured of primary and secondary hair follicles via microscopic observation including follicle depth, hair bulb width, dermis and epidermis thickness, changes in follicle activity, and histology. The results showed the presence of three phases in the annual hair cycle: anagen, catagen, and telogen. Primary and secondary hair follicle depth varied across the months; however, no significant difference was obtained between adjacent months (P>0.05). Primary hair follicles had a bigger hair bulb width compared to secondary hair follicles; however, this difference declined during hair follicle developed in anagen. As hair follicle growth slowed, the hair bulb broadened, and hair root depth became shallower. During the entire hair cycle, hair follicle depth and dermis thickness were positively correlated; however, this relationship was not significant (P>0.05) for primary and secondary hair follicle density and the ratio of secondary hair follicle density and primary hair follicle density (S/P ratio). In addition, new and old primary hair follicles coexisted with secondary hair follicles. Finally, secondary hair follicles had a higher activity rate compared to primary hair follicle in adult Liaoning Cashmere goats in certain months.

25064514
Mybs in mouse hair follicle development.
The Myb transcription factors are involved in essential cellular processes, such as cell proliferation, differentiation and cell death. Biological functions carried out by specific Myb proteins are distinct. Hair follicles are ectodermal-derived organs with cycling character of the growth resulting from the presence of somatic stem cells. In this study, we followed the expression of the Myb proteins in developing hair follicles and in the hair follicle stem cell niche by immunofluorescence staining. During hair follicle development, B-Myb was present in a few cells located in the area of cell division; c-Myb was abundant postanally in dividing cells but also in keratinizing zone. In addition, c-Myb was also detected in cells under the hair follicle bulge. These findings indicate possible involvement of c-Myb in regulation of activated stem cells leaving the niche.

25128627
Cyclic expression of Lhx2 is involved in secondary hair follicle development in cashmere goat.
Lhx2, a member of LIM homeobox transcription factors, plays a key role in normal tissue development. However, the molecular mechanism of Lhx2 gene in the regulation of the secondary hair follicle cycling in cashmere goat remains largely unknown. In the present study, the Lhx2 gene was cloned and characterized in cashmere goat. The cloned cDNA of Lhx2 was 1233 bp in length, encoding for proteins of 406 amino acids which contained all functionally important domains conserved among vertebrate Lhx2 gene. Tissue distribution analysis showed that Lhx2 mRNA was highly expressed in the skin and low expressed in all other tissues. Immunohistochemical localization revealed that Lhx2 was expressed in secondary hair follicles. Analysis of expression profiles of Lhx2 mRNA during different development stages in secondary hair follicles showed that the highest expression was observed at the anagen stage, while the lowest expression was detected at the telogen stage. The expression tendency during the development stages was that it increased from telogen to anagen, decreased from anagen to catagen, and decreased from catagen to telogen. The expression pattern of Lhx2 protein and mRNA was similar. The mRNA and protein expression of Lhx2 were consistent throughout the development cycle in secondary hair follicles. These findings provided a better understanding of the function of Lhx2 and suggested that the cyclic expression of Lhx2 might play important roles during secondary hair follicle development in cashmere goat. 

25619112
Cyclosporine A increases hair follicle growth by suppressing apoptosis-inducing factor nuclear translocation: a new mechanism.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) enhances hair growth through caspase-dependent pathways by retarding anagen-to-catagen phase transition in the hair follicle growth cycle. Whether apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), a protein that induces caspase-independent apoptosis, can regulate the hair follicle cycle in response to CsA is currently unclear. Here, we show that the pro-hair growth properties of CsA are in part due to blockage of AIF nuclear translocation. We first isolate hair follicles from murine dorsal skin. We then used Western blot, immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence to evaluate the expression and localization of AIF in hair follicles. We also determined whether modulation of AIF was responsible for the effects of CsA at the anagen-to-catagen transition. AIF was expressed in hair follicles during the anagen, catagen and telogen phases. There was significant nuclear translocation of AIF as hair follicles transitioned from anagen to late catagen phase; this was inhibited by CsA, likely due to reduced cyclophilin A expression and attenuated AIF release from mitochondria. However, we note that AIF translocation was not completely eliminated, which likely explains why the transition to catagen phase was severely retarded by CsA, rather than being completely inhibited. We speculate that blockade of the AIF signalling pathway is a critical event required for CsA-dependent promotion of hair growth in mice. The study of AIF-related signalling pathways may provide insight into hair diseases and suggest potential novel therapeutic strategies. 

25708924
PDGF signalling in the dermis and in dermal condensates is dispensable for hair follicle induction and formation.
Embryonic hair follicle (HF) induction and formation is dependent on signalling crosstalk between the dermis and specialized dermal condensates on the mesenchymal side and epidermal cells and incipient placodes on the epithelial side, but the precise nature and succession of signals remain unclear. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) signalling is involved in the development of several organs and the maintenance of adult tissues, including HF regeneration in the hair cycle. As both PDGF receptors, PDGFRalpha and PDGFRbeta, are expressed in embryonic dermis and dermal condensates, we explored in this study the role of PDGF signalling in HF induction and formation in the developing skin mesenchyme. We conditionally ablated both PDGF receptors with Tbx18(Cre) in early dermal condensates before follicle formation, and with Prx1-Cre broadly in the ventral dermis prior to HF induction. In both PDGFR double mutants, HF induction and formation ensued normally, and the pattern of HF formation and HF numbers were unaffected. These data demonstrate that mesenchymal PDGF signalling, either in the specialized niche or broadly in the dermis, is dispensable for HF induction and formation. 

25721772
The effect of parathyroid hormones on hair follicle physiology: implications for treatment of chemotherapy-induced alopecia.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) influence hair follicles through paracrine and intracrine routes. There is significant evidence that PTH and PTHrP influence the proliferation and differentiation of hair follicle cells. The PTH/PTHrP receptor signalling plays an important role in the hair follicle cycle and may induce premature catagen-telogen transition. Transgenic mice with an overexpression or blockade (PTH/PTHrP receptor knockout mice) of PTHrP activity revealed impaired or increased hair growth, respectively. Some findings also suggest that PTHrP may additionally influence the hair cycle by inhibiting angiogenesis. Antagonists of the PTH/PTHrP receptor have been shown to stimulate proliferation of hair follicle cells and hair growth. A hair-stimulating effect of a PTH/PTHrP receptor antagonist applied topically to the skin has been observed in hairless mice, as well as in mice treated with cyclophosphamide. These data indicate that the PTH/PTHrP receptor may serve as a potential target for new (topical) hair growth-stimulating drugs, especially for chemotherapy-induced alopecia.

25727244
SCF/c-kit signaling is required in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced migration and differentiation of hair follicle melanocytes for epidermal pigmentation.
Hair follicle melanocyte stem cells (McSCs) are responsible for hair pigmentation and also function as a major melanocyte reservoir for epidermal pigmentation. However, the molecular mechanism promoting McSCs for epidermal pigmentation remains elusive. 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) mimics key signaling involved in melanocyte growth, migration and differentiation. We therefore investigated the molecular basis for the contribution of hair follicle McSCs to epidermal pigmentation using the TPA induction model. We found that repetitive TPA treatment of female C57BL/6 mouse dorsal skin induced epidermal pigmentation by increasing the number of epidermal melanocytes. Particularly, TPA treatment induced McSCs to initiate proliferation, exit the stem cell niche and differentiate. We also demonstrated that TPA promotes melanoblast migration and differentiation in vitro. At the molecular level, TPA treatment induced robust expression of stem cell factor (SCF) in keratinocytes and c-kit in melanoblasts and melanocytes. Administration of ACK2, a neutralizing antibody against the Kit receptor, suppressed mouse epidermal pigmentation, decreased the number of epidermal melanocytes, and inhibited melanoblast migration. Taken together, our data demonstrate that TPA promotes the expansion, migration and differentiation of hair follicle McSCs for mouse epidermal pigmentation. SCF/c-kit signaling was required for TPA-induced migration and differentiation of hair follicle melanocytes. Our findings may provide an excellent model to investigate the signaling mechanisms regulating epidermal pigmentation from mouse hair follicle McSCs, and a potential therapeutic option for skin pigmentation disorders.

25808706
Mapping the expression of epithelial hair follicle stem cell-related transcription factors LHX2 and SOX9 in the human hair follicle.
In the murine hair follicle (HF), the transcription factors LHX2 and SOX9 are implicated in epithelial hair follicle stem cell (eHFSC) self-renewal and the maintenance of eHFSC niche characteristics. However, the exact expression patterns of LHX2 and SOX9 in the human HF are unclear. Therefore, we have quantitatively mapped the localisation of known human eHFSC markers keratin 15 (K15) and keratin 19 (K19) in the outer root sheath (ORS) of male occipital scalp anagen HFs and related this to the localisation of LHX2 and SOX9 protein expression. As expected, K15(+) and K19(+) cells represented two distinct progenitor cell populations in the bulge and in the proximal bulb ORS (pbORS). Interestingly, cell fluorescence for K19 was significantly stronger within the pbORS versus the bulge, and vice versa for K15, describing a hitherto unrecognised differential expression pattern. LHX2 and SOX9 expressing cells were distributed throughout the ORS, including the bulge, but were not restricted to it. SOX9 expression was most prominent in the ORS immediately below the human bulge, whereas LHX2(+) cells were similarly distributed between the sub-bulge and pbORS, that is compartments not enriched with quiescent eHFSCs. During catagen development, the intensity of LHX2 and SOX9 protein expression increased in the proximal HF epithelium. Double immunostaining showed that the majority of SOX9(+) cells in the human anagen HF epithelium did not co-express K15, K19 or LHX2. This expression profile suggests that LHX2 and SOX9 highlight distinct epithelial progenitor cell populations, in addition to K15(+) or K19(+) cells, that could play an important role in the maintenance of the human HF epithelium. 

25866259
Enhancing hair follicle regeneration by nonablative fractional laser: Assessment of irradiation parameters and tissue response.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Identification of methods to enhance anagen entry can be helpful for alopecia. Recently, nonablative laser has been proposed as a potential treatment for alopecia. However, how the laser parameters affect stem cell activity, hair cycles and the associated side effects have not been well characterized. Here we examine the effects of irradiation parameters of 1,550-nm fractional laser on hair cycles. STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: The dorsal skin of eight-week-old female C57BL/6 mice with hair follicles in synchronized telogen was shaved and irradiated with a 1,550-nm fractional erbium-glass laser (Fraxel RE:STORE (SR1500) Laser System, Solta Medical, U.S.A.) with varied beam energies (5-35 mJ) and beam densities (500-3500 microthermal zones/cm(2) ). The cutaneous changes were evaluated both grossly and histologically. Hair follicle stem cell activity was detected by BrdU incorporation and changes in gene expression were quantified by real-time PCR. RESULTS: Direct thermal injury to hair follicles could be observed early after irradiation, especially at higher beam energy. Anagen induction in the irradiated skin showed an all-or-non change. Anagen induction and ulcer formation were affected by the combination of beam energy and density. The lowest beam energy of 5 mJ failed to promote anagen entry at all beam densities tested. As beam energy increased from 10 mJ to 35 mJ, we found a decreasing trend of beam density that could induce anagen entry within 7-9 days with activation of hair follicle stem cells. Beam density above the pro-regeneration density could lead to ulcers and scarring followed by anagen entry in adjacent skin. Analysis of inflammatory cytokines, including TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6, revealed that transient moderate inflammation was associated with anagen induction and intense prolonged inflammation preceded ulcer formation. CONCLUSION: To avoid side effects of hair follicle injury and scarring, appropriate combination of beam energy and density is required. Parameters outside the therapeutic window can result in either no anagen promotion or ulcer formation.

26126647
Polycaprolactone fiber meshes provide a 3D environment suitable for cultivation and differentiation of melanocytes from the outer root sheath of hair follicle.
Melanocytes differentiated from the stem cells of human hair follicle outer root sheath (ORS) have the potential for developing non-invasive treatments for skin disorders out of a minimal sample: of hair root. With a robust procedure for melanocyte cultivation from the ORS of human hair follicle at hand, this study focused on the identification of a suitable biocompatible, biodegradable carrier as the next step toward their clinical implementation. Polycaprolactone (PCL) is a known biocompatible material used for a number of medical devices. In this study, we have populated electrospun PCL fiber meshes with normal human epidermal melanocytes (NHEM) as well as with hair-follicle-derived human melanocytes from the outer root sheath (HUMORS) and tested their functionality in vitro. PCL fiber meshes evidently provided a niche for melanocytes and supported their melanotic properties. The cells were tested for gene expression of PAX3, PMEL, TYR and MITF, as well as for proliferation, expression of melanocyte marker proteins tyrosinase and glycoprotein 100 (gp100), L-DOPA-tautomerase enzymatic activity and melanin content. Reduced mitochondrial activity and PAX-3 gene expression indicated that the three-dimensional PCL scaffold supported differentiation rather than proliferation of melanocytes. The monitored melanotic features of both the NHEM and HUMORS cultivated on PCL scaffolds significantly exceeded those of two-dimensional adherent cultures.

26375221
Three different clinical faces of the same histopathological entity: hair follicle nevus, trichofolliculoma and accessory tragus.
BACKGROUND: Hair follicle nevus is a rare, congenital hamartoma with follicular differentiation characterized histologically by numerous, tiny, mature hair follicles. Trichofolliculoma, the histopathological features of which are quite similar to those of hair follicle nevus, is also a hamartoma that differs from hair follicle. Accessory tragus is a relatively common, benign congenital abnormality of the external ear with an incidence rate of 1 to 10 per 1,000 live births. OBJECTIVE: This study seeks to assess the discriminatory value of currently available, histological criteria in the differential diagnosis of hair follicle nevus, accessory tragi and trichofolliculoma. METHODS: Twenty-one patients comprising 9 cases of hair follicle nevus, 8 accessory tragi patients and 4 trichofolliculoma cases, were recruited to perform the study. RESULTS: There were 10 males and 11 females in the study group. No significant difference was observed between the three study groups in terms of age, gender or histopathological parameters such as density of hair follicles, subcutaneous fat score and presence of connective tissue framework. Cartilaginous component was seen in 8 cases that were diagnosed as accessory tragi, while central cyst and radiating hair follicles were seen in 4 cases which were diagnosed as trichofolliculoma. CONCLUSION: The results of our study showed that diagnostic discrimination of these diseases could be made only with the clinicopathologic correlation because of their clinical and histopathological similarities.

26456821
Gab1 and Mapk Signaling Are Essential in the Hair Cycle and Hair Follicle Stem Cell Quiescence.
Gab1 is a scaffold protein that acts downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases. Here, we produced conditional Gab1 mutant mice (by K14- and Krox20-cre) and show that Gab1 mediates crucial signals in the control of both the hair cycle and the self-renewal of hair follicle stem cells. Remarkably, mutant hair follicles do not enter catagen, the destructive phase of the hair cycle. Instead, hair follicle stem cells lose quiescence and become exhausted, and thus no stem cell niches are established in the bulges. Moreover, conditional sustained activation of Mapk signaling by expression of a gain-of-function Mek1(DD) allele (by Krox20-cre) rescues hair cycle deficits and restores quiescence of the stem cells. Our data thus demonstrate an essential role of Gab1 downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases and upstream of Shp2 and Mapk in the regulation of the hair cycle and the self-renewal of hair follicle stem cells. 

26479922
Hair follicle-derived IL-7 and IL-15 mediate skin-resident memory T cell homeostasis and lymphoma.
The skin harbors a variety of resident leukocyte subsets that must be tightly regulated to maintain immune homeostasis. Hair follicles are unique structures in the skin that contribute to skin dendritic cell homeostasis through chemokine production. We demonstrate that CD4(+) and CD8(+) skin-resident memory T cells (TRM cells), which are responsible for long-term skin immunity, reside predominantly within the hair follicle epithelium of the unperturbed epidermis. TRM cell tropism for the epidermis and follicles is herein termed epidermotropism. Hair follicle expression of IL-15 was required for CD8(+) TRM cells, and IL-7 for CD8(+) and CD4(+) TRM cells, to exert epidermotropism. A lack of either cytokine in the skin led to impaired hapten-induced contact hypersensitivity responses. In a model of cutaneous T cell lymphoma, epidermotropic CD4(+) TRM lymphoma cell localization depended on the presence of hair follicle-derived IL-7. These findings implicate hair follicle-derived cytokines as regulators of malignant and non-malignant TRM cell tissue residence, and they suggest that the cytokines may be targeted therapeutically in inflammatory skin diseases and lymphoma. 

26752403
Differential Expression of Proteins Associated with the Hair Follicle Cycle - Proteomics and Bioinformatics Analyses.
Hair follicle cycling can be divided into the following three stages: anagen, catagen, and telogen. The molecular signals that orchestrate the follicular transition between phases are still unknown. To better understand the detailed protein networks controlling this process, proteomics and bioinformatics analyses were performed to construct comparative protein profiles of mouse skin at specific time points (0, 8, and 20 days). Ninety-five differentially expressed protein spots were identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF as 44 proteins, which were found to change during hair follicle cycle transition. Proteomics analysis revealed that these changes in protein expression are involved in Ca2+-regulated biological processes, migration, and regulation of signal transduction, among other processes. Subsequently, three proteins were selected to validate the reliability of expression patterns using western blotting. Cluster analysis revealed three expression patterns, and each pattern correlated with specific cell processes that occur during the hair cycle. Furthermore, bioinformatics analysis indicated that the differentially expressed proteins impacted multiple biological networks, after which detailed functional analyses were performed. Taken together, the above data may provide insight into the three stages of mouse hair follicle morphogenesis and provide a solid basis for potential therapeutic molecular targets for this hair disease. 

26912458
FOXC1 maintains the hair follicle stem cell niche and governs stem cell quiescence to preserve long-term tissue-regenerating potential.
Adult tissue stem cells (SCs) reside in niches, which orchestrate SC behavior. SCs are typically used sparingly and exist in quiescence unless activated for tissue growth. Whether parsimonious SC use is essential to conserve long-term tissue-regenerating potential during normal homeostasis remains poorly understood. Here, we examine this issue by conditionally ablating a key transcription factor Forkhead box C1 (FOXC1) expressed in hair follicle SCs (HFSCs). FOXC1-deficient HFSCs spend less time in quiescence, leading to markedly shortened resting periods between hair cycles. The enhanced hair cycling accelerates HFSC expenditure, and impacts hair regeneration in aging mice. Interestingly, although FOXC1-deficient HFs can still form a new bulge that houses HFSCs for the next hair cycle, the older bulge is left unanchored. As the new hair emerges, the entire old bulge, including its reserve HFSCs and SC-inhibitory inner cell layer, is lost. We trace this mechanism first, to a marked increase in cell cycle-associated transcripts upon Foxc1 ablation, and second, to a downstream reduction in E-cadherin-mediated inter-SC adhesion. Finally, we show that when the old bulge is lost with each hair cycle, overall levels of SC-inhibitory factors are reduced, further lowering the threshold for HFSC activity. Taken together, our findings suggest that HFSCs have restricted potential in vivo, which they conserve by coupling quiescence to adhesion-mediated niche maintenance, thereby achieving long-term tissue homeostasis. 

27080563
Signalling couples hair follicle stem cell quiescence with reduced histone H3 K4/K9/K27me3 for proper tissue homeostasis.
Mechanisms of plasticity to acquire different cell fates are critical for adult stem cell (SC) potential, yet are poorly understood. Reduced global histone methylation is an epigenetic state known to mediate plasticity in cultured embryonic SCs and T-cell progenitors. Here we find histone H3 K4/K9/K27me3 levels actively reduced in adult mouse skin and hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) during G0 quiescence. The level of marks over specific gene promoters did not correlate to mRNA level changes in quiescent HFSCs. Skin hypomethylation during quiescence was necessary for subsequent progression of hair homeostasis (cycle). Inhibiting BMP signal, a known HFSC anti-proliferative factor, elevated HFSC methylation in vivo during quiescence prior to proliferation onset. Furthermore, removal of proliferation factors and addition of BMP4 reduced histone methylases and increased demethylases mRNAs in cultured skin epithelial cells. We conclude that signalling couples hair follicle stem cell quiescence with reduced H3 K4/K9/K27me3 levels for proper tissue homeostasis. 

27162354
Keratin network modifications lead to the mechanical stiffening of the hair follicle fiber.
The complex mechanical properties of biomaterials such as hair, horn, skin, or bone are determined by the architecture of the underlying fibrous bionetworks. Although much is known about the influence of the cytoskeleton on the mechanics of isolated cells, this has been less studied in tridimensional tissues. We used the hair follicle as a model to link changes in the keratin network composition and architecture to the mechanical properties of the nascent hair. We show using atomic force microscopy that the soft keratinocyte matrix at the base of the follicle stiffens by a factor of ~360, from 30 kPa to 11 MPa along the first millimeter of the follicle. The early mechanical stiffening is concomitant to an increase in diameter of the keratin macrofibrils, their continuous compaction, and increasingly parallel orientation. The related stiffening of the material follows a power law, typical of the mechanics of nonthermal bending-dominated fiber networks. In addition, we used X-ray diffraction to monitor changes in the (supra)molecular organization within the keratin fibers. At later keratinization stages, the inner mechanical properties of the macrofibrils dominate the stiffening due to the progressive setting up of the cystine network. Our findings corroborate existing models on the sequence of biological and structural events during hair keratinization.

27393687
iRhom2 (Uncv) mutation blocks bulge stem cells assuming the fate of hair follicle.
iRhom2 is necessary for maturation of TNFalpha-converting enzyme, which is required for the release of tumor necrosis factor. In the previous study, we found that the iRhom2 (Uncv) mutation in N-terminal cytoplasmic domain-encoding region (iRhom2 (Uncv) ) leads to aberrant hair shaft and inner root sheath differentiation, thus results in a hairless phenotype in homozygous iRhom2 (Uncv/Uncv) BALB/c mice. In this study, we found iRhom2 mutation decreased hair matrix proliferation, however, iRhom2 (Uncv/Uncv) mice displayed hyperproliferation and hyperkeratosis in the interfollicular epidermis along with hypertrophy in the sebaceous glands. The number of bulge SCs was not altered and the hair follicle cycle is normal in iRhom2 (Uncv/Uncv) mice. The decreased proliferation in hair matrix but increased proliferation in epidermis and sebaceous glands in iRhom2 (Uncv/Uncv) mice may implying that iRhom2 (Uncv) mutation blocks bugle stem cells assuming the fate of hair follicle. This study identifies iRhom2 as a novel regulator for determination of keratinocyte lineages. 

27431245
Nestin-Expressing Hair-Follicle-Associated Pluripotent (HAP) Stem Cells Promote Whisker Sensory-Nerve Growth in Long-Term 3D-Gelfoam  Histoculture.
Mouse whiskers containing hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells, from nestin-driven green fluorescent protein (ND-GFP) transgenic mice, were placed in 3D histoculture supported by Gelfoam( ). beta-III tubulin-positive fibers, consisting of ND-GFP-expressing HAP stem cells, extended up to 500 mm from the whisker nerve stump in histoculture. The growing fibers had growth cones on their tips expressing F-actin indicating they were growing axons. The growing whisker sensory nerve was highly enriched in ND-GFP HAP stem cells which appeared to play a major role in its elongation and interaction with other nerves placed in 3D culture, including the sciatic nerve, the trigeminal nerve, and the trigeminal nerve ganglion. The results suggested that a major function of HAP stem cells in the hair follicle is for growth of the hair follicle sensory nerve.

27431256
Highly Efficient Neural Differentiation of CD34-Positive Hair-Follicle-Associated Pluripotent Stem Cells Induced by Retinoic Acid and Serum-Free Medium.
Neural differentiation of hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells residing in the bulge area is a promising autologous source for stem cell therapy. In the present chapter, we describe the identification and enrichment of CD34(+) HAP stem cells by magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS), and induce them to differentiate into neuronal and glial cells using defined neural-induction media. The different neural cell populations arising during in vitro differentiation from HAP stem cells are characterized by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemistry assay.

27574799
The battle of the bulge: re-evaluating hair follicle stem cells in wound repair.
The hair follicle has an established role in wound re-epithelialisation, a phenomenon that has been appreciated since at least the first half of the last century. The bulge niche, one location of hair follicle epithelial stem cells has been of particular interest to researchers over recent years, with numerous studies showing its ability to directly contribute to epidermal repair. However, recent work has highlighted other progenitor regions of the hair follicle that appear to act as stem cells during epidermal repair. In addition, several studies within the last 12 months have questioned the importance of the bulge during re-epithelialisation, producing conflicting literature. Here we provide a new model to demonstrate how several important differences in experimental design between studies could account for these seemingly opposing findings, which may have implications for how future studies are conducted.

27880068
Human hair-follicle associated pluripotent (hHAP) stem cells differentiate to cardiac-muscle cells.
We have previously demonstrated that nestin-expressing hair follicle-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells are located in the bulge area. HAP stem cells have been previously shown to differentiate to neurons, glial cells, keratinocytes, smooth-muscle cells, melanocytes and cardiac-muscle cells in vitro. Subsequently, we demonstrated that HAP stem cells could effect nerve and spinal cord regeneration in mouse models, differentiating to Schwann cells and neurons. In previous studies, we established an efficient protocol for the differentiation of cardiac-muscle cells from mouse HAP stem cells. In the present study, we isolated the upper part of human hair follicles containing human HAP (hHAP) stem cells. The upper parts of human hair follicles were suspended in DMEM containing 10% FBS where they differentiated to cardiac-muscle cells as well as neurons, glial cells, keratinocytes and smooth-muscle cells. This method is appropriate for future use with human hair follicles to produce hHAP stem cells in sufficient quantities for future heart, nerve and spinal cord regeneration in the clinic.

28143780
Msi2 Maintains Quiescent State of Hair Follicle Stem Cells by Directly Repressing the Hh Signaling Pathway.
Hair follicles (HFs) undergo precisely regulated cycles of active regeneration (anagen), involution (catagen), and relative quiescence (telogen). Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) play important roles in regenerative cycling. Elucidating mechanisms that govern HFSC behavior can help uncover the underlying principles of hair development, hair growth disorders, and skin cancers. RNA-binding proteins of the Musashi (Msi) have been implicated in the biology of different stem cell types, yet they have not been studied in HFSCs. Here we utilized gain- and loss-of-function mouse models to demonstrate that forced MSI2 expression retards anagen entry and consequently delays hair growth, whereas loss of Msi2 enhances hair regrowth. Furthermore, our findings show that Msi2 maintains quiescent state of HFSCs in the process of the telogen-to-anagen transition. At the molecular level, our unbiased transcriptome profiling shows that Msi2 represses Hedgehog signaling activity and that Shh is its direct target in the hair follicle. Taken together, our findings reveal the importance of Msi2 in suppressing hair regeneration and maintaining HFSC quiescence. The previously unreported Msi2-Shh-Gli1 pathway adds to the growing understanding of the complex network governing cyclic hair growth.

28220862
Induction of hair follicle dermal papilla cell properties in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived multipotent LNGFR(+)THY-1(+) mesenchymal cells.
The dermal papilla (DP) is a specialised mesenchymal component of the hair follicle (HF) that plays key roles in HF morphogenesis and regeneration. Current technical difficulties in preparing trichogenic human DP cells could be overcome by the use of highly proliferative and plastic human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). In this study, hiPSCs were differentiated into induced mesenchymal cells (iMCs) with a bone marrow stromal cell phenotype. A highly proliferative and plastic LNGFR(+)THY-1(+) subset of iMCs was subsequently programmed using retinoic acid and DP cell activating culture medium to acquire DP properties. The resultant cells (induced DP-substituting cells [iDPSCs]) exhibited up-regulated DP markers, interacted with human keratinocytes to up-regulate HF related genes, and when co-grafted with human keratinocytes in vivo gave rise to fibre structures with a hair cuticle-like coat resembling the hair shaft, as confirmed by scanning electron microscope analysis. Furthermore, iDPSCs responded to the clinically used hair growth reagent, minoxidil sulfate, to up-regulate DP genes, further supporting that they were capable of, at least in part, reproducing DP properties. Thus, LNGFR(+)THY-1(+) iMCs may provide material for HF bioengineering and drug screening for hair diseases.

28228108
Expression profiling and bioinformatic analyses suggest new target genes and pathways for human hair follicle related microRNAs.
BACKGROUND: Human hair follicle (HF) cycling is characterised by the tight orchestration and regulation of signalling cascades. Research shows that micro(mi)RNAs are potent regulators of these pathways. However, knowledge of the expression of miRNAs and their target genes and pathways in the human HF is limited. The objective of this study was to improve understanding of the role of miRNAs and their regulatory interactions in the human HF. METHODS: Expression levels of ten candidate miRNAs with reported functions in hair biology were assessed in HFs from 25 healthy male donors. MiRNA expression levels were correlated with mRNA-expression levels from the same samples. Identified target genes were tested for enrichment in biological pathways and accumulation in protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. RESULTS: Expression in the human HF was confirmed for seven of the ten candidate miRNAs, and numerous target genes for miR-24, miR-31, and miR-106a were identified. While the latter include several genes with known functions in hair biology (e.g., ITGB1, SOX9), the majority have not been previously implicated (e.g., PHF1). Target genes were enriched in pathways of interest to hair biology, such as integrin and GnRH signalling, and the respective gene products showed accumulation in PPIs. CONCLUSIONS: Further investigation of miRNA expression in the human HF, and the identification of novel miRNA target genes and pathways via the systematic integration of miRNA and mRNA expression data, may facilitate the delineation of tissue-specific regulatory interactions, and improve our understanding of both normal hair growth and the pathobiology of hair loss disorders.

28350869
In vitro skin models to study epithelial regeneration from the hair follicle.
The development of dermal equivalents (DEs) for the treatment of burns has contributed toward efficient wound closure. A collagen-glycosaminoglycan DE (C-GAG) grafted with hair follicles converted a full-thickness wound to partial-thickness resulting in complete wound closure and restored hair. In this study we compared the ability of both intact pilosebaceous units (PSU) or truncated hair follicles (THF) to regenerate a multilayered epidermis in vitro when implanted into de-epidermalized dermis (DED) or C-GAG with the epidermis generated in vivo using C-CAG. Keratinocytes explanted from the outer root sheath of PSU and THF in both DED and C-GAG but only formed a multilayered epidermis with PSU in DED. PSU were more effective at forming multilayered epidermis in DED than THF. Both DED and C-GAG skin expressed proliferation (PCNA), differentiation (K1, K10), hyperproliferation (K6, K16), basal (K14), putative stem cell (p63), extracellular matrix protein (Collagen IV), mesenchymal (vimentin) and adherens junction (beta-catenin) markers. These data suggest DEs supported initial maintenance of the implanted hair follicles, in particular PSU, and provide an excellent model with which to investigate the regulation of hair follicle progenitor epithelial cells during epidermal regeneration. Although neither PSU nor THF formed multilayered epidermis in C-CAG in vitro, hair follicles implanted into engrafted C-GAG on a burns patient resulted in epithelial regeneration and expression of proliferation and differentiation markers in a similar manner to that seen in vitro. However, the failure of C-GAG to support epidermal regeneration in vitro suggests in vivo factors are essential for full epidermal regeneration using C-GAG.

28418596
Hair follicle dermal stem cells and skin-derived precursor cells: Exciting tools for endogenous and exogenous therapies.
Understanding the cellular interactions and molecular signals underlying hair follicle (HF) regeneration may have significant implications for restorative therapies for skin disease that diminish hair growth, whilst also serving to provide fundamental insight into the mechanisms underlying adult tissue regeneration. One of the major, yet underappreciated, players in this process is the underlying HF mesenchyme. Here, we provide an overview of a mesenchymal progenitor pool referred to as hair follicle dermal stem cells (hfDSCs), discuss their potential functions within the skin and their relationship to skin-derived precursors (SKPs), and consider unanswered questions about the function of these specialized fibroblasts. We contend that dermal stem cells provide an important reservoir of renewable dermal progenitors that may enable development of novel restorative therapies following hair loss, skin injury or disease.

28442778
As a carrier-transporter for hair follicle reconstitution, platelet-rich plasma promotes proliferation and induction of mouse dermal papilla cells.
Morphogenesis of hair follicles during development and in hair reconstitution assays involves complex interactions between epithelial cells and dermal papilla cells (DPCs). DPCs may be a source of cells for hair regeneration in alopecia patients. Reconstitution of engineered hair follicles requires in vitro culture of trichogenic cells, a three-dimensional scaffolds, and biomolecular signals. However, DPCs tend to lose their biological activity when cultured as trichogenic cells, and scaffolds currently used for hair follicle regeneration lack biological efficiency and biocompatibility. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) gel forms a three-dimensional scaffold that can release endogenous growth factors, is mitogenic for a variety of cell types and is used in model tissue repair and regeneration systems. We found that 5% activated PRP significantly enhanced cell proliferation and hair-inductive capability of mouse and human DPCs in vitro and promoted mouse hair follicle formation in vivo. PRP also formed a three-dimensional gel after activation. We used PRP gel as a scaffold to form many de novo hair follicles on a plane surface, showing it to be candidate bioactive scaffold capable of releasing endogenous growth factors for cell-based hair follicle regeneration.

28672930
Isolation and characterization of in vitro culture of hair follicle cells differentiated from umbilical cord blood mesenchymal stem cells.
The present investigation explored the in vitro culture, isolation and characterization of hair follicle cell differentiation from umbilical cord blood mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Flow cytometry was used to obtain MSCs from the isolation and purification of human umbilical cord blood MSCs. Culture suspension of hair follicle organ was centrifuged and the supernatant used in the culture medium of MSCs, and the entire process of induced differentiation was recorded by photomicroscopy. The expression level of surface marker CK15 of hair follicle cells obtained from induced differentiation was detected with immunofluorescence. RT-PCR method was used to further detect the difference in expression of CK15 between hair follicle cells and umbilical cord blood MSCs, and statistical analysis was carried out. CD44+CD29+ double-labeled cells accounted for 50.8% of all the samples of umbilical cord blood MSCs in this study. The diameter of hair follicle cells differentiated from umbilical cord blood stem cells reached 800x10-3 mm after 3 weeks of cell culture. Based on the detection and colocalization of CK15 expression in induced hair follicle cells, the overlap ratio between CK15 and nuclei reached 83% in hair follicle cells, which was obviously higher than that in umbilical cord blood stem cells. The difference had statistical significance (P<0.05). In conclusion, hair follicle cells can be successfully differentiated from umbilical cord blood stem cells by using the supernatant from hair follicle cells. This method can be used for high-speed induced differentiation with high purity, which is promising for clinical application.

28685843
Oxidative stress management in the hair follicle: Could targeting NRF2 counter age-related hair disorders and beyond?
Widespread expression of the transcription factor, nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (NRF2), which maintains redox homeostasis, has recently been identified in the hair follicle (HF). Small molecule activators of NRF2 may therefore be useful in the management of HF pathologies associated with redox imbalance, ranging from HF greying and HF ageing via androgenetic alopecia and alopecia areata to chemotherapy-induced hair loss. Indeed, NRF2 activation has been shown to prevent peroxide-induced hair growth inhibition. Multiple parameters can increase the levels of reactive oxygen species in the HF, for example melanogenesis, depilation-induced trauma, neurogenic and autoimmune inflammation, toxic drugs, environmental stressors such as UV irradiation, genetic defects and aging-associated mitochondrial dysfunction. In this review, the potential mechanisms whereby NRF2 activation could prove beneficial in treatment of redox-associated HF disorders are therefore discussed.

28708295
CD13 is a marker for onychofibroblasts within nail matrix onychodermis: Comparison of its expression patterns in the nail unit and in the hair follicle.
BACKGROUND: We previously demonstrated the presence of onychodermis, a specialized mesenchymal cell population beneath the nail matrix and proximal nail bed demonstrating CD10 expression. We hypothesize that the onychodermis could be the nail analog of the follicular dermal papilla, which is known to express CD13. We compare CD13 expression patterns between specialized mesenchymes of nail and hair, and compare these findings with CD10 expression patterns. METHODS: CD10 and CD13 immunohistochemistry was performed on polydactyly and adult cadaveric nail units, and on hair follicles in scalp nevus sebaceus excision specimens. RESULTS: CD10 and CD13 were expressed in the mesenchyme below the nail matrix and nail bed. Stronger CD13 expression was observed in the mesenchyme containing onychofibroblasts below the nail matrix compared with that below the nail bed. CD10 was expressed in the dermal sheath of terminal hair follicles, but it was expressed in the dermal sheath and follicular dermal papilla of primitive hair follicles within nevus sebaceus lesions. CD13 was expressed in the dermal sheath and dermal papilla of terminal and primitive hair follicles. CONCLUSION: CD13 may be a marker for onychofibroblasts within nail matrix onychodermis. We demonstrate CD13 expression in the specialized mesenchymes of both nail and hair.

28812580
Lactate dehydrogenase activity drives hair follicle stem cell activation.
Although normally dormant, hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) quickly become activated to divide during a new hair cycle. The quiescence of HFSCs is known to be regulated by a number of intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms. Here we provide several lines of evidence to demonstrate that HFSCs utilize glycolytic metabolism and produce significantly more lactate than other cells in the epidermis. Furthermore, lactate generation appears to be critical for the activation of HFSCs as deletion of lactate dehydrogenase (Ldha) prevented their activation. Conversely, genetically promoting lactate production in HFSCs through mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1 (Mpc1) deletion accelerated their activation and the hair cycle. Finally, we identify small molecules that increase lactate production by stimulating Myc levels or inhibiting Mpc1 carrier activity and can topically induce the hair cycle. These data suggest that HFSCs maintain a metabolic state that allows them to remain dormant and yet quickly respond to appropriate proliferative stimuli.

28886268
Implanted hair-follicle-associated pluripotent (HAP) stem cells encapsulated in polyvinylidene fluoride membrane cylinders promote effective recovery of peripheral nerve injury.
Hair follicle-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells are located in the bulge area of the hair follicle, express the stem-cell marker, nestin, and have been shown to differentiate to nerve cells, glial cells, keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells, and melanocytes. Transplanted HAP stem cells promote the recovery of peripheral nerve and spinal cord injuries and have the potential for heart regeneration as well. In the present study, we implanted mouse green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing HAP stem-cell spheres encapsulated in polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF)-membrane cylinders into the severed sciatic nerve of immunocompetent and immunocompromised (nude) mice. Eight weeks after implantation, immunofluorescence staining showed that the HAP stem cells differentiated into neurons and glial cells. Fluorescence microscopy showed that the HAP stem cell hair spheres promoted rejoining of the sciatic nerve of both immunocompetent and immunodeficient mice. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining showed that the severed scatic nerves had regenerated. Quantitative walking analysis showed that the transplanted mice recovered the ability to walk normally. HAP stem cells are readily accessible from everyone, do not form tumors, and can be cryopreserved without loss of differentiation potential. These results suggest that HAP stem cells may have greater potential than iPS or ES cells for regenerative medicine.

28967641
Large-scale expansion and characterization of human adult neural crest-derived multipotent stem cells from hair follicle for regenerative medicine applications.
AIM: The purpose of this work was to obtain, multiply and characterize the adult neural crest-derived multipotent stem cells from human hair follicle for their further clinical use. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adult neural crest-derived multipotent stem cells were obtained from human hair follicle by explant method and were expanded at large-scale up to a clinically significant number. The resulted cell cultures were examined by flow cytometry and immunocytochemical analysis. Their clonogenic potential, ability to self-renewal and directed multilineage differentiation were also investigated. RESULTS: Cell cultures were obtained from explants of adult human hair follicles. Resulted cells according to morphological, phenotypic and functional criteria satisfied the definition of neural crest-derived multipotent stem cells. They had the phenotype Sox2+Sox10+Nestin+CD73+CD90+CD105+CD140a+CD140b+CD146+CD166+CD271+CD349+ CD34-CD45-CD56-HLA-DR-, showed high clonogenic potential, ability to self-renewal and directed differentiation into the main derivatives of the neural crest: neurons, Schwann cells, adipocytes and osteoblasts. CONCLUSION: The possibility of a large-scale expansion of adult neural crest-derived multipotent stem cells up to 40-200 106 cells from minimal number of hair follicles with retention of their phenotype and functional properties are the significant step towards their translation into the clinical practice.Key Words: regenerative medicine, neural crest, hair follicle, neural crest-derived multipotent stem cells, directed differentiation, large-scale expansion.

28992198
Analysing the dynamics of a model for alopecia areata as an autoimmune disorder of hair follicle cycling.
Alopecia areata (AA) is a CD8$^{+}$ T cell-dependent autoimmune disease that disrupts the constantly repeating cyclic transformations of hair follicles (HFs). Among the three main HF cycle stages-growth (anagen), regression (catagen) and relative quiescence (telogen)-only anagen HFs are attacked and thereby forced to prematurely enter into catagen, thus shortening active hair growth substantially. After having previously modelled the dynamics of immune system components critically involved in the disease development (Dobreva et al., 2015), we here present a mathematical model for AA which incorporates HF cycling and illustrates the anagen phase interruption in AA resulting from an inflammatory autoimmune response against HFs. The model couples a system describing the dynamics of autoreactive immune cells with equations modelling the hair cycle. We illustrate states of health, disease and treatment as well as transitions between them. In addition, we perform parameter sensitivity analysis to assess how different processes, such as proliferation, apoptosis and input from stem cells, impact anagen duration in healthy versus AA-affected HFs. The proposed model may help in evaluating the effectiveness of existing treatments and identifying new potential therapeutic targets.

29054607
Repigmentation of Human Vitiligo Skin by NBUVB Is Controlled by Transcription of GLI1 and Activation of the beta-Catenin Pathway in the Hair Follicle Bulge Stem Cells.
Vitiligo repigmentation is a complex process in which the melanocyte-depleted interfollicular epidermis is repopulated by melanocyte precursors from hair follicle bulge that proliferate, migrate, and differentiate into mature melanocytes on their way to the epidermis. The strongest stimulus for vitiligo repigmentation is narrow-band UVB (NBUVB), but how the hair follicle melanocyte precursors are activated by UV light has not been extensively studied. To better understand this process, we developed an application that combined laser capture microdissection and subsequent whole transcriptome RNA sequencing of hair follicle bulge melanocyte precursors and compared their gene signatures to that of regenerated mature epidermal melanocytes from NBUVB-treated vitiligo skin. Using this strategy, we found up-regulation of TNC, GJB6, and THBS1 in the hair follicle bulge melanocytes and of TYR in the epidermal melanocytes of the NBUVB-treated vitiligo skin. We validated these results by quantitative real-time-PCR using NBUVB-treated vitiligo skin and untreated normal skin. We also identified that GLI1, a candidate stem cell-associated gene, is significantly up-regulated in the melanocytes captured from NBUVB-treated vitiligo bulge compared with untreated vitiligo bulge. These signals are potential key players in the activation of bulge melanocyte precursors during vitiligo repigmentation.

29174869
Expression characteristics of BMP2, BMPR-IA and Noggin in different stages of hair follicle in yak skin.
Bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), BMP receptor-IA (BMPR-IA), and the BMP2 antagonist Noggin are important proteins involved in regulating the hair follicle (HF) cycle in skin. In order to explore the expression profiles of BMP2, BMPR-IA, and Noggin in the HF cycle of yak skin, we collected adult yak skin in the telogen, proanagen, and midanagen phases of HFs and evaluated gene and protein expression by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. qRT-PCR and western blotting results showed that BMP2 and BMPR-IA expression levels were highest in the telogen of HFs and higher than that of Noggin in the same phase. The expression of Noggin was significantly higher in proanagen and midanagen phases of HFs than in the telogen phase, with the highest expression observed in the proanagen phase. Moreover, the expression of Noggin in the proanagen phase was significantly higher than those of BMP2 and BMPR-IA during the same phase. Immunohistochemistry results showed that BMP2, BMPR-IA, and Noggin were expressed in the skin epidermis, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, HF outer root sheath, and hair matrix. In summary, the characteristic expression profiles of BMP2, BMPR-IA, and Noggin suggested that BMP2 and BMPR-IA had inhibitory effects on the growth of HFs in yaks, whereas Noggin promoted the growth of yak HFs, mainly by affecting skin epithelial cell activity. These results provide a basis for further studies of HF development and cycle transition in yak skin.

29176608
Computational derivation of a molecular framework for hair follicle biology from disease genes.
Knowledge about genetic drivers of disease increases the efficiency of interpreting patient DNA sequence and helps to identify and prioritize biological points of intervention. Discoveries of genes with single mutations exerting substantial phenotypic impact reliably provide new biological insight, although such approaches tend to generate knowledge that is disjointed from the complexity of biological systems governed by elaborate networks. Here we sought to facilitate diagnostic sequencing for hair disorders and assess the underlying biology by compiling an archive of 684 genes discovered in studies of monogenic disorders and identifying molecular annotations enriched by them. To demonstrate utility for this dataset, we performed two data driven analyses. First, we extracted and analyzed data implicating enriched signaling pathways and identified previously unrecognized contributions from Hippo signaling. Second, we performed hierarchical clustering on the entire dataset to investigate the underlying causal structure of hair disorders. We identified 35 gene clusters representing genetically derived biological modules that provide a foundation for the development of a new disease taxonomy grounded in biology, rather than clinical presentations alone. This Resource will be useful for diagnostic sequencing in patients with diseases affecting the hair follicle, improved characterization of hair follicle biology, and methods development in precision medicine.

29267468
Porokeratotic eccrine and hair follicle nevus: a report of two cases and review of the literature.
Porokeratotic eccrine and hair follicle nevus is a very rare non-hereditary disorder of keratinization with eccrine and hair follicle involvement with only 9 cases described in the literature. In 2009 the term porokeratotic anexial ostial nevus was proposed to comprehend porokeratotic eccrine and hair follicle nevus and a related and more common process without follicular involvement: porokeratotic eccrine ostial and dermal duct nevus Recent findings suggest that both entities may be produced by a mutation in GJB2 gene, which is associated to KID syndrome. Herein we report 2 cases of porokeratotic eccrine and hair follicle nevus and review the existing cases in the Spanish and English literature.

29310861
Never too old to regenerate? Wound induced hair follicle neogenesis after secondary intention healing in a geriatric patient.
Wound healing is a natural process to restore the structure and function of injured or diseased tissues. Repair of a skin wound usually leads to a scar while regeneration implies fully recovery of function and structure of the damaged tissue. Adult skin wound usually heals with scar while fetal skin heals scarless. Hair regeneration in elderly scalp wound has never been observed. We reported an 80-year-old patient with a large wound on the scalp after excision of a basal cell carcinoma healed by secondary intention wound healing. The patient's wound healed very well aesthetically. Interestingly, on approximate post wound day 180, a hair was observed to be growing towards the surface and eventually erupted in the center of the wound. The hair remained black at 42-month follow-up. This case demonstrated that neogenesis of hair is possible even in geriatric patient. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of hair regrow in human skin after wound healing.

29473525
Oral Mucosal Stem Cells, Human Immature Dental Pulp Stem Cells and Hair Follicle Bulge Stem Cells as Adult Stem Cells Able to Correct Limbal Stem Cell Deficiency.
BACKGROUND: Adult stem cells are somatic stem cells distributed all over the body. They represent a promising future for regenerative medicine because of their multiple advantages as they are widely available, accessible, easily stored and manipulated to a wide range of cells and with minimal invasive extraction. OBJECTIVE: This review describes three examples of adult stem cells: oral mucosal epithelial stem cells, human immature dental pulp stem cells and hair follicle bulge stem cells that show an ability to correct limbal stem cell deficiency, their isolation and cultivation methods, feeder layers, carriers, markers expressed, successfulness to regenerate the ocular surface and mimic the corneal function in LSCD. CONCLUSION: Although hair follicle bulge stem cells and human immature dental pulp stem cells are a promising adult stem cell source to correct limbal stem cell deficiency, but the published research evaluating this ability is limited. Therefore, this article emphasize further research in this area.

29572802
Hair Follicle-Associated Pluripotent (HAP) Stem Cells in Gelfoam  Histoculture for Use in Spinal Cord Repair.
The stem cell marker, nestin, is expressed in the hair follicle, both in cells in the bulge area (BA) and the dermal papilla (DP). Nestin-expressing hair follicle-associated-pluripotent (HAP) stem cells of both the BA and DP have been previously shown to be able to form neurons, heart muscle cells, and other non-follicle cell types. The ability of the nestin-expressing HAP stem cells from the BA and DP to repair spinal cord injury was compared. Nestin-expressing HAP stem cells from both the BA and DP grew very well on Gelfoam . The HAP stem cells attached to the Gelfoam  within 1 h. They grew along the grids of the Gelfoam  during the first 2 or 3 days. Later they spread into the Gelfoam . After transplantation of Gelfoam  cultures of nestin-expressing BA or DP HAP stem cells into the injured spinal cord (including the Gelfoam ) nestin-expressing BA and DP cells were observed to be viable over 100 days post-surgery. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining showed connections between the transplanted cells and the host spine tissue. Immunohistochemistry showed many Tuj1-, Isl 1/2, and EN1-positive cells and nerve fibers in the transplanted area of the spinal cord after BA Gelfoam  or DP Gelfoam  cultures were transplanted to the spine. The spinal cord of mice was injured to effect hind-limb paralysis. Twenty-eight days after transplantation with BA or DP HAP stem cells on Gelfoam  to the injured area of the spine, the mice recovered normal locomotion.

29577917
Msx2 Supports Epidermal Competency during Wound-Induced Hair Follicle Neogenesis.
Cutaneous wounds in adult mammals typically heal by scarring. However, large full-thickness wounds undergo wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN), a form of regeneration. Here, we show that WIHN requires transient expression of epidermal Msx2 in two phases: the wound margin early and the wound center late. Msx2 expression is present in the migrating epithelium during early wound healing and then presents in the epithelium and mesenchyme later in the wound center. WIHN is abrogated in germline and epithelial-specific Msx2 mutant mice. Unlike the full-length Msx2 promoter, a minimal Msx2 promoter fails activation in the wound center, suggesting complex regulation of Msx2 expression. The Msx2 promoter binding sites include Tcf/Lef, Jun/Creb, Pax3, and three SMAD sites. However, basal epithelial-induced BMP suppression by noggin overexpression did not affect WIHN. We propose that Msx2 signaling is required for the epidermis to acquire spatiotemporal competence during WIHN. Topologically, hair regeneration dominates in the wound center, coinciding with late Msx2 expression. Together, these results suggest that intrinsic Msx2 expression supports epithelial competency during hair follicle neogenesis. This work provides insight into endogenous mechanisms modulating competency of adult epidermal progenitors for mammalian ectodermal appendage neogenesis, and offers the target Msx2 for future regeneration-promoting therapies.

29681238
Engineering the future of hair follicle regeneration and delivery.


29992514
Human Hair Follicle Associated-Pluripotent (hHAP) Stem Cells Differentiate to Cardiac Muscle Cells.
Human hair follicle-associated pluripotent (hHAP) stem cells were isolated from the upper parts of human hair follicles. hHAP stem cells were suspended in DMEM containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) where they differentiated to cardiac muscle cells as well as neurons, glial cells, keratinocytes, and smooth muscle cells. The methods of this chapter are appropriate for use of human hair follicles to produce hHAP stem cells in sufficient quantities for future heart, nerve, and spinal cord regeneration in the clinic.

30044987
The Mesenchymal Niche of the Hair Follicle Induces Regeneration by Releasing Primed Progenitors from Inhibitory Effects of Quiescent Stem Cells.
The mechanisms by which stem cell (SC) quiescence is regulated to allow normal regeneration are poorly understood. Here, we show that the mesenchymal niche of the hair follicle, the dermal papilla (DP), governs the properties of quiescent SCs in the bulge despite its relatively distant location. The DP induces regeneration by downregulating bulge-dependent inhibitory effects that restrain the intrinsic proliferation features of primed progenitors. Once regeneration initiates, the DP orchestrates Shh expression in primed-progenitor descendants by an autoregulatory circuit to restrict Shh expression to the DP vicinity and to confine Shh levels to act only on nearby cells. As the DP moves away from the bulge, quiescent SCs are exposed to Shh transiently. This ensures a short period of quiescent SC activation required for normal regeneration. Furthermore, our findings show that Shh signaling in the DP fine-tunes Wnt signaling activity and reveal the importance of signaling cross talk in coordinating regeneration pace.

30249856
Masquerades less known: Case report of benign hair follicle tumors.
Benign eyelid tumors derived from hair follicles are rare and frequently misdiagnosed as basal-cell carcinoma when evaluation is based on clinical evidence alone. The discrepancy between the clinical aspect and the histological diagnosis can be as high as 30-40%, even for experienced clinicians. Unfortunately, this masquerade is not only clinical but also histological. Patients may be subjected to unnecessarily extensive surgery. We present a case report of three patients clinically diagnosed as malignancy but histopathologically proven as benign hair follicle tumors.

30332640
Single-Cell Transcriptomics of Traced Epidermal and Hair Follicle Stem Cells Reveals Rapid Adaptations during Wound Healing.
Epithelial tissues, such as the skin, rely on cellular plasticity of stem cells (SCs) from different niches to restore tissue function after injury. How these molecularly and functionally diverse SC populations respond to injury remains elusive. Here, we genetically labeled Lgr5- or Lgr6-expressing cells from the hair follicle bulge and interfollicular epidermis (IFE), respectively, and monitored their individual transcriptional adaptations during wound healing using single-cell transcriptomics. Both Lgr5 and Lgr6 progeny rapidly induced a genetic wound signature that, for Lgr5 progeny, included the remodeling of receptors to permit interactions with the wound environment, a property that Lgr6 progeny possessed even before wounding. When contributing to re-epithelialization, Lgr5 progeny gradually replaced their bulge identity with an IFE identity, and this process started already before Lgr5 progeny left the bulge. Altogether, this study reveals how different SCs respond and adapt to a new environment, potentially explaining cellular plasticity of many epithelial tissues.

30632899
LncRNA-000133 from secondary hair follicle of Cashmere goat: identification, regulatory network and its effects on inductive property of dermal papilla cells.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), a class of non-protein conding RNAs > 200 nt in length, were thought to play critical roles in regulating the expression of protein-coding genes. Here, we identified and characterized a novel lncRNA-000133 from the secondary hair follicle (SHF) of cashmere goat with its ceRNA network analysis, as well as, its potential effects on inductive property of dermal papilla cells were evaluated through overexpression analysis. Expression analysis indicated that lncRNA-000133 had a significantly higher expression at anagen than that at telogen in SHF of Cashmere goat, suggesting that lncRNA-000133 might be involved in the reconstruction of SHF with the formation and growth of cashmere fiber. Taken together with methylation analysis, we showed that 5' regulatory region methylation of the lncRNA-000133 gene might be involved in its expression suppression in SHF of Cashmere goat. The ceRNA regulatory network showed that a rich and complex regulatory relationship between lncRNA-000133 and related miRNAs with their target genes. The overexpression of lncRNA-000133 led to a significant increasing in the relative expression of ET-1, SCF, ALP and LEF1 in dermal papilla cells suggesting that lncRNA-000133 appears to contribute the inductive property of dermal papilla cells.

30882821
Multifunctional Zn doped hollow mesoporous silica/polycaprolactone electrospun membranes with enhanced hair follicle regeneration and antibacterial activity for wound healing.
Due to the complexity of the skin tissue structure, the regeneration of the entire skin, including skin appendages such as hair follicles, is a big challenge. In addition, skin trauma is often accompanied by bacterial infections that delay the wound healing. Therefore, developing wound dressings, which promote hair follicle regeneration and inhibit bacterial infection in the wound healing process, is of great clinical significance. In this study, Zn doped hollow mesoporous silica nanospheres (HMZS) were synthesized by a sol-gel method and a novel wound healing dressing was prepared by incorporation of drug ciprofloxacin hydrochloride (CiH)-loaded Zn containing mesoporous silica nanospheres (CiH-HMZS) into polycaprolactone (PCL) electrospun fibers. The CiH-HMZS/P nano-composite electrospun fibers exhibit the ability to promote angiogenesis and skin regeneration by releasing Si ions, and the activity to enhance hair follicle regeneration and inhibit bacterial growth by releasing zinc ions and achieve the synergistic antibacterial effect with both Zn ions and CiH in low concentrations. Thus, the CiH-HMZS/P nano-composite membrane is a promising multi-functional wound healing material for inhibiting bacterial growth in infected wounds and enhancing skin wound healing including hair follicle regeneration.

30887615
An updated classification of hair follicle morphogenesis.
Hair follicle (HF) formation in developing embryonic skin requires stepwise signalling between the epithelial epidermis and mesenchymal dermis, and their specialized derivatives, the placode/germ/peg and dermal condensate/papilla, respectively. Classically, distinct stages of HF morphogenesis have been defined, in the mouse model, based on (a) changes in cell morphology and aggregation; (b) expression of few known molecular markers; (c) the extent of follicle downgrowth; and (d) the presence of differentiating cell types. Refined genetic strategies and recent emerging technologies, such as live imaging and transcriptome analyses of isolated cell populations or single cells, have enabled a closer dissection of the signalling requirements at different stages of HF formation, particularly early on. They have also led to the discovery of precursor cells for placode, dermal condensate and future bulge stem cells that, combined with molecular insights into their fate specification and subsequent formation, serve as novel landmarks for early HF morphogenetic events and studies of the signalling networks mediating these processes. In this review, we integrate the emergence of HF precursor cell states and novel molecular markers of fate and formation to update the widely used 20-year-old seminal classification guide of HF morphogenetic stages by Paus et al. We then temporally describe the latest insights into the early cellular and molecular events and signalling requirements for HF morphogenesis in relation to one another in a holistic manner.

30935300
Expression profile analysis of microRNAs during hair follicle development in the sheep foetus.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate the development and growth cycle of hair follicles (HFs). The molecular mechanism by which miRNAs determine the development of HFs in the sheep foetus remains elusive. In this study, the expression profiles of miRNAs at 11 development periods (45, 55, 65, 75, 85, 95, 105, 115, 125, 135 and 145 d) in sheep foetus skin were analysed by high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. A total of 72 conserved miRNAs, 44 novel miRNAs and 32 known miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed. qRT-PCR results for 18 miRNAs were consistent with the sequencing data. 85 d of foetal development was the starting point for secondary hair follicle (SF) development according to tissue morphology and cluster analysis. In SF development, the prolactin signalling pathway and platelet activation played important roles, and 10 miRNAs were potential candidate miRNAs in SF initiation.

31021445
Pulling force deforms hair follicle root sheath nuclei and surrounding dermal collagen matrix differently at infundibulum, isthmus and suprabulbar regions.
The biomechanical properties of the collagenous dermal matrix are well described but responses to mechanical force by the hair follicles have not been characterised so far. We applied a pulling force on hair follicles to visualise and quantify changes in the keratin-14 and involucrin-positive cell layers of the follicles using nuclear dimensions as an indicator of tissue deformation. Moreover, we used second-harmonic generation imaging to visualise changes in the dermal collagen. We report how the anatomical regions of the follicle respond to the force. Nuclei of the isthmus region were most affected. The nuclei in both K14-positive outer root sheath cells and in involucrin-positive cells were significantly compressed, whereas the response in the infundibulum and suprabulbar regions was more variable. The deformation of the nuclei did not correlate with lamin A/C expression. The changes in the collagenous matrix were distinct at different depths of the dermis as collagen fibrils were compressed closer to each other in the region adjacent to upper suprabulbar follicle and pulled apart near the infundibulum. Thus, the responses to the force are locally defined and the cells in the permanent and cycling parts of the follicle behave differently.

31050675
Microbiome in the hair follicle of androgenetic alopecia patients.
Androgenetic alopecia is the most common form of hair loss in males. It is a multifactorial condition involving genetic predisposition and hormonal changes. The role of microflora during hair loss remains to be understood. We therefore analyzed the microbiome of hair follicles from hair loss patients and the healthy. Hair follicles were extracted from occipital and vertex region of hair loss patients and healthy volunteers and further dissected into middle and lower compartments. The microbiome was then characterized by 16S rRNA sequencing. Distinct microbial population were found in the middle and lower compartment of hair follicles. Middle hair compartment was predominated by Burkholderia spp. and less diverse; while higher bacterial diversity was observed in the lower hair portion. Occipital and vertex hair follicles did not show significant differences. In hair loss patients, miniaturized vertex hair houses elevated Propionibacterium acnes in the middle and lower compartments while non-miniaturized hair of other regions were comparable to the healthy. Increased abundance of P. acnes in miniaturized hair follicles could be associated to elevated immune response gene expression in the hair follicle.

31148078
Isolation and Culture of Hair Follicle Dermal Sheath Mesenchymal Stromal Cells.
To date, little is published on the characterization and therapeutic potential of human mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) derived from hair follicle dermal sheath (DS). We present protocols for the isolation and culture of human DS-MSCs starting with the use of a dissecting microscope to separate out dermal sheaths from hair follicles for trypsin digestion. We also present the protocols for the adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic differentiation of these DS-MSCs as we seek to harness these cells for potential applications in stem cell therapy and tissue engineering.

31273189
Overexpression of Nanog in amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cells accelerates dermal papilla cell activity and promotes hair follicle regeneration.
Alopecia, one of the most common chronic diseases, can seriously affect a patient's psychosocial life. Dermal papilla (DP) cells serve as essential signaling centers in the regulation of hair growth and regeneration and are associated with crosstalk between autocrine/paracrine factors and the surrounding environment. We previously demonstrated that amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cell-conditioned medium (AF-MSC-CM) accelerates hair regeneration and growth. The present study describes the effects of overexpression of a reprogramming factor, Nanog, on MSC properties, the paracrine effects on DP cells, and in vivo hair regrowth. First, we examined the in vitro proliferation and lifespan of AF-MSCs overexpressing reprogramming factors, including Oct4, Nanog, and Lin28, alone or in combination. Among these factors, Nanog was identified as a key factor in maintaining the self-renewal capability of AF-MSCs by delaying cellular senescence, increasing the endogenous expression of Oct4 and Sox2, and preserving stemness. Next, we evaluated the paracrine effects of AF-MSCs overexpressing Nanog (AF-N-MSCs) by monitoring secretory molecules related to hair regeneration and growth (IGF, PDGF, bFGF, and Wnt7a) and proliferation of DP cells. In vivo studies revealed that CM derived from AF-N-MSCs (AF-N-CM) accelerated the telogen-to-anagen transition in hair follicles (HFs) and increased HF density. The expression of DP and HF stem cell markers and genes related to hair induction were higher in AF-N-CM than in CM from AF-MSCs (AF-CM). This study suggests that the secretome from autologous MSCs overexpressing Nanog could be an excellent candidate as a powerful anagen inducer and hair growth stimulator for the treatment of alopecia.

31455775
Priming mobilization of hair follicle stem cells triggers permanent loss of regeneration after alkylating chemotherapy.
The maintenance of genetic integrity is critical for stem cells to ensure homeostasis and regeneration. Little is known about how adult stem cells respond to irreversible DNA damage, resulting in loss of regeneration in humans. Here, we establish a permanent regeneration loss model using cycling human hair follicles treated with alkylating agents: busulfan followed by cyclophosphamide. We uncover the underlying mechanisms by which hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) lose their pool. In contrast to immediate destructive changes in rapidly proliferating hair matrix cells, quiescent HFSCs show unexpected massive proliferation after busulfan and then undergo large-scale apoptosis following cyclophosphamide. HFSC proliferation is activated through PI3K/Akt pathway, and depletion is driven by p53/p38-induced cell death. RNA-seq analysis shows that HFSCs experience mitotic catastrophe with G2/M checkpoint activation. Our findings indicate that priming mobilization causes stem cells to lose their resistance to DNA damage, resulting in permanent loss of regeneration after alkylating chemotherapy.

31488583
Hair follicle regeneration suppresses Ras-driven oncogenic growth.
Mutations associated with tumor development in certain tissues can be nontumorigenic in others, yet the mechanisms underlying these different outcomes remains poorly understood. To address this, we targeted an activating Hras mutation to hair follicle stem cells and discovered that Hras mutant cells outcompete wild-type neighbors yet are integrated into clinically normal skin hair follicles. In contrast, targeting the Hras mutation to the upper noncycling region of the skin epithelium leads to benign outgrowths. Follicular Hras mutant cells autonomously and nonautonomously enhance regeneration, which directs mutant cells into continuous tissue cycling to promote integration rather than aberrancy. This follicular tolerance is maintained under additional challenges that promote tumorigenesis in the epidermis, including aging, injury, and a secondary mutation. Thus, the hair follicle possesses a unique, enhanced capacity to integrate and contain Hras mutant cells within both homeostatic and perturbed tissue, demonstrating that in the skin, multiple, distinct mechanisms exist to suppress oncogenic growth.

31521610
Context-dependent effect of sPLA2-IIA induced proliferation on murine hair follicle stem cells and human epithelial cancer.
BACKGROUND: Tissue stem cells (SCs) and cancer cells proliferation is regulated by many common signalling mechanisms. These mechanisms temporally balance proliferation and differentiation events during normal tissue homeostasis and repair. However, the effect of these aberrant signalling mechanisms on the ultimate fate of SCs and cancer cells remains obscure. METHODS: To evaluate the functional effects of Secretory Phospholipase A2-IIA (sPLA2-IIA) induced abnormal signalling on normal SCs and cancer cells, we have used K14-sPLA2-IIA transgenic mice hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs), DMBA/TPA induced mouse skin tumour tissues, human oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and skin squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) derived cell lines. FINDINGS: Our study demonstrates that sPLA2-IIA induces rapid proliferation of HFSCs, thereby altering the proliferation dynamics leading to a complete loss of the slow cycling H2BGFP positive HFSCs. Interestingly, in vivo reversion study by JNK inhibition exhibited a significant delay in post depilation hair growth, confirming that sPLA2-IIA promotes HFSCs proliferation through JNK/c-Jun signalling. In a different cellular context, we showed increased expression of sPLA2-IIA in human OSCC and mouse skin cancer tissues. Importantly, a xenograft of sPLA2-IIA knockdown cells of OSCC and SCC cell lines showed a concomitant reduction of tumour volume in NOD-SCID mice and decreased JNK/c-Jun signalling. INTERPRETATION: This study unravels how an increased proliferation induced by a common proliferation inducer (sPLA2-IIA) alters the fate of normal SCs and cancer cells distinctively through common JNK/c-Jun signalling. Thus, sPLA2-IIA can be a potential target for various diseases including cancer. FUND: This work was partly supported by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR-3097) and ACTREC (42) grants.

31523107
Histopathology of Hair Follicle Epithelium in Patients of Recurrent and Recalcitrant Dermatophytosis: A Diagnostic Cross-Sectional Study.
Context: Recurrent and recalcitrant dermatophytosis is a major evolving health problem in India. Histopathology is important in the diagnosis of recurrent and resistant cases, as it is postulated that hair follicle epithelium is affected, acting as the reservoir leading to recurrence and recalcitrance. Aims: This study aims to study histopathology of hair follicle epithelium in patients of recurrent and recalcitrant dermatophytosis. Settings and Design: A diagnostic cross-sectional study was performed at tertiary care hospital and referral center in central India. Materials and Methods: A 3 mm-sized punch skin biopsy was taken from 108 patients of recurrent or recalcitrant dermatophytosis involving hair follicles. Sections were stained by hematoxylin and eosin (H and E) stain in these patients followed by special stains such as periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain and Gomori methenamine silver (GMS) stain in 78 individuals where hair follicle was seen on H and E stain. Results: In H and E stain, surface epidermis fungus was observed in 57/108 patients (52.7%). In hair follicle-positive sections (78), surface fungus was seen in 52.6% with H and E stain, 84.6% with PAS stain, and 91% with GMS stain. H and E was 62.12% sensitive and 100% specific to diagnose fungus when compared with PAS stain and 57.7% sensitive and 100% specific when compared with GMS stain. PAS was 91.5% sensitive and 85.7% specific when compared with GMS stain. Ectothrix infection was the most common form of hair infection observed in 87.2% cases with GMS stain. Simultaneous presence of fungus in hair follicle and stratum corneum was observed in 87.3% of patients. Conclusion: Majority of patients showed affection of hair follicles by dermatophytes in clinically chronic, recurrent, and recalcitrant dermatophytic infections. GMS stain is the acceptable gold standard for detection of fungal elements.

31562859
BMP2-mediated PTEN enhancement promotes differentiation of hair follicle stem cells by inducing autophagy.
The proliferation and differentiation of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) is regulated by several signaling pathways, including BMP and PTEN. Therefore, this study intended to clarify the potential effects of two such regulators, BMP2 and PTEN, on HFSC differentiation. HFSCs were subjected to BMP2, noggin (BMP2 ligand inhibitor), rapamycin (Rapa, autophagy inducer), 3-methyladenine (3-MA, autophagy inhibitor), or shRNA against PTEN. The differentiation of HFSCs was evaluated using oil red O staining and autophagy was assessed using the transmission electron microscope. Then expression of epidermal differentiation marker (K10 and involucrin), adipogenic markers (PPAR-gamma2, aP2, perilipin2, and Adipoq), keratinocyte-specific marker (K15), proliferation-related markers (PCNA and Ki67) and autophagy-related factors (Atg5, Atg7, Atg12, Beclin-1 and LC3-II/LC3-I) was examined by RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. Next, HFSCs were treated with 3-MA, or shRNA against Atg5 or Atg7 to verify the effect of autophagy on differentiation of BMP2-treated HFSCs. Finally, the effect of BMP2 on HFSC differentiation was verified by a mouse wound model. HFSCs overexpressing BMP2 exhibited elevated expression of epidermal differentiation marker, adipogenic markers and autophagy-related factors but inhibited expression of keratinocyte-specific marker and proliferation-related markers. Furthermore, we found that PTEN promoted the differentiation of BMP2-treated HFSCs by inducing autophagy. In vivo experiments further confirmed the roles of BMP2/PTEN on differentiation of HFSCs. Taken together, BMP2 up-regulated PTEN and consequently induced autophagy to facilitate HFSC differentiation.

31735193
Effect of melatonin administration to lactating cashmere goats on milk production of dams and on hair follicle development in their offspring.
Melatonin treatment in adult cashmere goats can increase cashmere yield and improve cashmere fibre quality by inducing cashmere growth during cashmere non-growth period, of which time cashmere goats are in the mid and late stages of lactation. However, whether melatonin treatment in adult cashmere goats affects their offspring's growth performance remains unknown. Therefore, the objectives of the current study were to determine the effects of melatonin treatment in adult cashmere goats on cashmere and milk production performance in dams and on hair follicle development and subsequent cashmere production in their offspring. Twenty-four lactating Inner Mongolian Cashmere goat dams (50 +- 2 days in milk, mean +- SD) and their single-born female offspring (50 +- 2 days old, mean +- SD) were randomly assigned to one of two groups supplemented with melatonin implants (MEL; n = 12) or without (CON; n = 12). The melatonin implants were subcutaneously implanted behind the ear at a dose of 2 mg/kg live weight on two occasions - 30 April and 30 June 2016. The results demonstrated that melatonin treatment in adult cashmere goats increased cashmere production and improved cashmere fibre quality as indicated by greater cashmere yield, longer cashmere fibre staple length, finer cashmere fibre diameter and thicker cashmere fibre density. The milk fat content was higher in MEL compared with CON cashmere goats. The daily yields of milk production, milk protein and milk lactose were lower in MEL compared with CON cashmere goats. Serum melatonin concentrations were greater, serum prolactin concentrations were lower and milk melatonin concentrations and yields were greater in MEL compared with CON cashmere goats. With regard to offspring, there were no differences in cashmere yield, fibre staple length, fibre diameter and fibre density at yearling combing, and the primary and secondary hair follicles population and maturation between treatments. In conclusion, melatonin treatment in adult cashmere goats during cashmere non-growth period is a practical and an effective way in cashmere industry as indicated by not only increasing cashmere yield and improving cashmere fibre quality in adult cashmere goat dams but also having no impairment in hair follicle development and the subsequent cashmere production in their single-born offspring.

31747615
miR-29a/b1 Inhibits Hair Follicle Stem Cell Lineage Progression by Spatiotemporally Suppressing WNT and BMP Signaling.
Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) and subsequent generations of matrix progeny make lineage choices by responding to spatiotemporal signals; however, the cues driving that specification are not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that the dynamics of microRNA (miR)-29 expression are inversely proportional to HFSC lineage progression. Furthermore, we show that sustained miR-29a/b1 overexpression in anagen or telogen in mice causes a short-hair phenotype and eventual hair loss by inhibiting the proliferation of HFSCs and matrix cells and likely preventing their differentiation. Conversely, in a loss-of-function in vivo model, miR-29a/b1 deficiency accelerates HFSC lineage progression in telogen. Mechanistically, miR-29a/b1 blocks HFSC lineage specification by spatiotemporally targeting Ctnnb1, Lrp6, Bmpr1a, and Ccna2. We further show that skin-specific Lrp6 or Bmpr1a ablation partially accounts for the short-hair phenotype. Overall, these synergistic targets reveal miR-29a/b1 as a high-fidelity antagonist of HFSC lineage progression and a potential therapeutic target for hair loss.

32028856
Keratinocytes-hair follicle bulge stem cells-fibroblasts co-cultures on a tri-layer skin equivalent derived from gelatin/PEG methacrylate nanofibers.
Generation of full thickness skin equivalent models is of increasing interest in tissue engineering because of the limitations inherent to current models. In recent years, considerable interest has been given to electrospun hybrid nanofibers prepared using natural and synthetic combinations of polymers. By blending two polymers, gelatin and PEG methacrylate we created a novel functional hydrogel-named GelMet. By adjusting the concentration of GelMet between 14 and 20wt%, three types of electrospun membranes were fabricated. Keratinocytes, hair follicle bulge stem cells (HFBSCs) and fibroblasts were successfully isolated and cultured in 14 wt%, 17 wt% and 20 wt% GelMet scaffolds respectively and generated a tri-layered electrospun construct. Characterization of GelMet electrospun membranes were compared with those of the pure gelatin nanofibers. Due to plasticity, by incorporating HFBSCs, it is expected to increase the cell content of skin substitute without the need to incorporate several different cell populations. The fiber diameter and pore size of the scaffold for each layer were fabricated in such a way to mimic the structural gradation of collagen matrix across the native skin. Good mechanical properties and dimensional stability of GelMet scaffold, combined with the ability to support cell growth in vitro, suggest its tremendous potential application in skin tissue engineering.

32125089
Extract of Plumbago zeylanica enhances the growth of hair follicle dermal papilla cells with down-regulation of 5alpha-reductase type II.
BACKGROUND: Cellular senescence, a phenomenon of irreversible growth arrest of mammalian cells, is involved in various age-related phenomena in organisms. Hair follicle dermal papilla (DP) cells play important roles in the regulation of hair growth and loss. AIMS: We examined the implication of cellular senescence of DP cells in androgenetic alopecia (AGA), the most common form of male hair loss, and searched for the compounds that have a beneficial effect on the prevention of AGA. PATIENTS/METHODS: Expression of the 5alpha-reductase type II (SRD5A2) gene, which plays a key role in the development of AGA, was examined by quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting analysis in DP cells. Besides, DP cells were cultured with the extracts of herbs used in traditional Ayurvedic medicine to search for the compounds that have a beneficial effect on the growth of DP cells. RESULTS: We found that expression of the SRD5A2 was up-regulated in senescent DP cells. We also found that the herbal extract of Plumbago zeylanica (root) enhanced the growth of DP cells and down-regulated the expression of SRD5A2 in DP cells. Further, plumbagin, an ingredient of P zeylanica, would be responsible for the above effects of P zeylanica. CONCLUSION: These results suggested the possibility that senescent DP cells may have a role in the development of AGA through up-regulating SRD5A2 expression, and the P zeylanica extract and plumbagin may suppress its development through enhancing the growth of DP cells and down-regulating SRD5A2 expression in DP cells.

32226650
Treatment of Full-Thickness Skin Wounds with Blood-Derived CD34+ Precursor Cells Enhances Healing with Hair Follicle Regeneration.
Objective: Epidermal CD34+ stem cells located in the hair follicle (HF) bulge area are capable of inducing HF neogenesis and enhancing wound healing after transplantation. In this study, we observed CD34+ cells derived from blood directly participate in dermal regeneration during full-thickness excisional wound healing. Approach: We isolated and in vitro expanded a subset of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)-like precursor cells from the peripheral blood of adult mice with the surface markers: CD34+, leucine rich repeat containing G protein-coupled receptor 5 (LGR5)+, CD44+, c-kit+, lineage negative (lin-), and E-cadherin-. These blood-derived precursor cells (BDPCs), can be further differentiated into epithelial-like cells (eBDPCs) and secret fibroblast growth factor 9 (Fgf9) protein. Result: When transplanted into full-thickness skin wounds, eBDPC treatment produced accelerated healing and enhanced skin structure regeneration with less dermal scar formation. Also, HF neogenesis (HFN) was observed with incorporation of labeled BDPCs in the wound area. Innovation:Nondermal-derived CD34+ cells (BDPCs) from the adult unmobilized peripheral blood are capable of in vitro expansion and differentiation.Successful establishment of an in vitro technical platform for BDPCs expansion and differentiation.The in vitro expanded and differentiated epithelial-like cells (eBDPCs) enhance wound healing and directly contribute to skin regeneration and HFN. Conclusion: BDPCs isolated and expanded from adult peripheral blood may provide a possible new cell-based treatment strategy for HF neogenesis and skin wound regeneration.

32303824
Tacrolimus (FK506) ointment combined with Nb-UVB could activate both hair follicle (HF) and dermal melanocyte precursors in vitiligo: the first histopathological and clinical study.
Topical Tacrolimus, especially when combined with Nb-UVB, has been proven clinically to be effective in the treatment of vitiligo. However, no histological study has evaluated the repigmentation mechanism of tacrolimus ointment in combination therapy with Nb-UVB. In this study, the histological findings in patients receiving Nb-UVB were compared with those receiving topical tacrolimus combined with Nb-UVB. Twenty patients were recruited and received Nb-UVB treatment. The first ten patients were selected for the combination therapy and instructed to apply tacrolimus 0.1% ointment twice daily on the specified lesion of interest. The remaining ten patients did not receive any other topical treatments. Skin biopsy was performed at baseline from the depigmented area and 2-3 months post-treatment from the repigmented area. Biopsy specimens were stained with haematoxylin-eosin-safran (HES), Fontana Masson, HMB45, Melan A, MITF, SOX10 and Nestin. Clinically, in the combination therapy group, interfollicular repigmentation in addition to the perifollicular and marginal pattern was observed. Histologically, in the combination therapy group, besides the migration of melanocytes from the bulge of the hair follicle seen in the monotherapy group, for the first time, we observed dermal melanocyte precursors located in mid- and superficial dermis.

32686230
Melatonin supplement induced the hair follicle development in offspring rex rabbits.
Previous studies have shown that the administration of melatonin (MT) to early post-natal fur-bearing animals increases the numbers of hair follicles (HFs). In this study, the effect of maternal MT supplementation on the HF development in offspring was investigated. To explore the potential underlying mechanisms, the expression of the melatonin receptor 1A (MTNR1A) gene was determined in the offspring. The Rex rabbit was the animal model, and 79 same-day-pregnancy females were randomly assigned to either a control (n = 39) or MT treatment (n = 40) group, and 10 mg MT microcapsules was implanted at the base of the neck of rabbits in the treatment group. Skin, lung, liver, muscle, kidney, heart and duodenum samples were collected from the newborn rabbits. The results showed that MT improved fur quality in the offspring rabbits by reducing the diameter of primary and secondary HFs, and increasing the HF population. MT did not affect the reproductive performance of female rabbits, and it did affect the blood levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone, prolactin and MT. In the offspring rabbits, MT significantly stimulated MTNR1A gene expression in the skin and heart (p < .01), whereas MTNR1A gene expression was significantly suppressed in the liver and kidney (p < .05). These results revealed that maternal MT supplementation increased HF density, reduced hairiness and improved the fur quality in Rex rabbit offspring. Maternal MT supply may modulate the responses of HFs in the offspring by upregulating the expression of MTNR1A in the skin. In this study, implantation of low-dose MT did not affect the reproductive performance of female rabbits or on the growth of their offspring.

32967732
Transplanted hair follicle stem cells migrate to the penumbra and express neural markers in a rat model of cerebral ischaemia/reperfusion.
BACKGROUND: Ischaemic stroke has become the main cause of death and severe neurological disorders, for which effective restorative treatments are currently limited. While stem cell transplantation offers therapeutic potential through neural regeneration, this approach is associated with the challenges of limited applicable sources. Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) are multipotential cells that can differentiate into ectodermal and mesodermal lineages and proliferate for long periods. The therapeutic potentials of HFSCs have not been investigated in ischaemic stroke models, and therefore, in this study, we aimed to determine whether they could survive and migrate to ischaemic areas after a stroke attack. METHODS: A rat model of middle cerebral artery ischaemia/reperfusion was established and intravenously administered HFSCs. The potential of HFSCs to migrate and differentiate into neuron-like cells as well as their ability to reduce the infarct size was evaluated. Rat brain tissue samples were collected 2 weeks after cell transplantation and analysed via TTC staining, immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry methods. The data were statistically analysed and presented as the means +- standard deviations. RESULTS: Intravenously administrated rat HFSCs were able to migrate to the penumbra where they expressed neuron-specific markers, reduced the infarct volume and promoted neurological recovery. CONCLUSION: HFSC transplantation has therapeutic potential for ischaemic stroke and is, therefore, worthy of further investigation toward possible clinical development for treating stroke patients.

33090548
A niche in the spotlight: Could external factors critically disturb hair follicle homeostasis and contribute to inflammatory hair follicle diseases?
The anatomy of the hair follicle and the dynamics of its barrier provide a special space for interactions between macromolecules and the underlying tissue. Translocation across the hair follicle epithelium and immune recognition have been confirmed for proteins, nucleic acids, engineered particles, virus particles and others. Tissue responses can be modulated by pro-inflammatory stimuli as demonstrated in penetration and transcutaneous immunization studies. Even under physiological conditions, hair follicle openings are filled with exogenous material ranging from macromolecules, engineered particles to natural particles including diverse communities of microbes. The exposed position of the infundibulum suggests that local inflammatory insults could disturb the finely tuned balance and may trigger downstream responses that initiate or facilitate local outbreaks of inflammatory hair diseases typically occurring in close spatial association with the infundibulum as observed in cicatricial alopecia. The question as to how microbial colonization or deposition of contaminants on the surface of the hair follicle epithelium interact with the barrier status under the influence of individual predisposition, may help us understand local flare-ups of inflammatory hair diseases. Specifically, learning more about skin barrier alterations in the different types of inflammatory hair diseases and cross-talk with exogenous compounds could give new insights in this less explored aspect of hair follicle homeostasis. Such knowledge may not only be used to develop supportive measures to maintain a healthy scalp. It may have wider implications for our understanding on how external factors influence inflammation and immunological responses in the skin.

33364530
Design of a biofluid-absorbing bioactive sandwich-structured Zn-Si bioceramic composite wound dressing for hair follicle regeneration and skin burn wound healing.
The deep burn skin injures usually severely damage the dermis with the loss of hair follicle loss, which are difficult to regenerate. Furthermore, severe burns often accompanied with large amount of wound exudates making the wound moist, easily infected, and difficult to heal. Therefore, it is of great clinical significance to develop wound dressings to remove wound exudates and promote hair follicle regeneration. In this study, a sandwich-structured wound dressing (SWD) with Janus membrane property was fabricated by hot compression molding using hydrophilic zinc silicate bioceramics (Hardystonite, ZnCS) and hydrophobic polylactic acid (PLA). This unique organic/inorganic Janus membrane structure revealed excellent exudate absorption property and effectively created a dry wound environment. Meanwhile, the incorporation of ZnCS bioceramic particles endowed the dressing with the bioactivity to promote hair follicle regeneration and wound healing through the release of Zn2+ and SiO3 2- ions, and this bioactivity of the wound dressing is mainly attributed to the synergistic effect of Zn2+ and SiO3 2- to promote the recruitment, viability, and differentiation of hair follicle cells. Our study demonstrates that the utilization of the Janus membrane and synergistic effect of different type bioactive ions are effective approaches for the design of wound dressings for burn wound healing.

33404138
DNA methylation and histone acetylation are involved in Wnt10b expression during the secondary hair follicle cycle in Angora rabbits.
Secondary hair follicles (SHFs) in the Angora rabbit exhibit classic cyclic hair development, but the multiple molecular signals involved in hair cycling are yet to be explored in detail. In the present study, we investigated the expression pattern, methylation and histone H3 acetylation status of Wnt10b, as a molecular signal participating in hair cycling, during the SHF cycle in the Angora rabbit. Expression of Wnt10b at the anagen phase was significantly higher than that at both the telogen and catagen phases, suggesting that Wnt10b might serve as a critical activator during cyclic transition of SHFs. Methylation frequency of the fifth CpG site (CpG5-175 bp) in CpG islands at the anagen phase was lower than that at both the catagen and telogen phases. The methylation status of the CpG5 site was negatively correlated with Wnt10b expression. This indicated that the methylation of CpG5 might participate in Wnt10b transcriptional suppression in SHFs. Furthermore, histone H3 acetylation status in the regions-256~-11 bp and 98 ~ 361 bp were significantly lower at both the catagen and telogen phases than at the anagen phase. The histone H3 acetylation level was significantly positively correlated with Wnt10b expression. This confirmed that histone acetylation was likely involved in upregulating Wnt10b transcription in SHFs. Additionally, potential binding to the transcription factors ZF57 and HDBP was predicted within the CpG5 site. In conclusion, our findings reveal the epigenetic mechanism of Wnt10b transcription and provide a new insight into epigenetic regulation during the SHF cycle in the Angora rabbit.

33430889
Neural progenitor cell-derived nanovesicles promote hair follicle growth via miR-100.
BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence shows that mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) hold great promise to promote hair growth. However, large-scale production of EVs is still a challenge. Recently, exosome-mimetic nanovesicles (NV) prepared by extruding cells have emerged as an alternative strategy for clinical-scale production. Here, ReNcell VM (ReN) cells, a neural progenitor cell line was serially extruded to produce NV. RESULTS: ReN-NV were found to promote dermal papilla cell (DPC) proliferation. In addition, in a mouse model of depilation-induced hair regeneration, ReN-NV were injected subcutaneously, resulting in an acceleration of hair follicle (HF) cycling transition at the site. The underlying mechanism was indicated to be the activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Furthermore, miR-100 was revealed to be abundant in ReN-NV and significantly up-regulated in DPCs receiving ReN-NV treatment. miR-100 inhibition verified its important role in ReN-NV-induced beta-catenin signaling activation. CONCLUSION: These results provide an alternative agent to EVs and suggest a strategy for hair growth therapy.

33523535
Human epithelial stem cell survival within their niche requires "tonic" cannabinoid receptor 1-signalling-Lessons from the hair follicle.
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) regulates multiple aspects of human epithelial physiology, including inhibition/stimulation of keratinocyte proliferation/apoptosis, respectively. Yet, how the ECS impacts on human adult epithelial stem cell (eSC) functions remains unknown. Scalp hair follicles (HFs) offer a clinically relevant, prototypic model system for studying this directly within the native human stem cell niche. Here, we show in organ-cultured human HFs that, unexpectedly, selective activation of cannabinoid receptor-1 (CB1)-mediated signalling via the MAPK (MEK/Erk 1/2) and Akt pathways significantly increases the number and proliferation of cytokeratin CK15+ or CK19+ human HF bulge eSCs in situ, and enhances CK15 promoter activity in situ. In striking contrast, CB1-stimulation promotes apoptosis in the differentiated progeny of these eSCs (CK6+ HF keratinocytes). Instead, intrafollicular CB1 gene knockdown or CB1 antagonist treatment significantly reduces human HF eSCs numbers and stimulates their apoptosis, while CB1 knockout mice exhibit a reduced bulge eSCs pool in vivo. This identifies "tonic" CB1 signalling as a required survival stimulus for adult human HF eSCs within their niche. This novel concept must be taken into account whenever the human ECS is targeted therapeutically.

33539849
Association of fibrosis in the bulge portion with hair follicle miniaturization in androgenetic alopecia.


33594043
Functional hair follicle regeneration: an updated review.
The hair follicle (HF) is a highly conserved sensory organ associated with the immune response against pathogens, thermoregulation, sebum production, angiogenesis, neurogenesis and wound healing. Although recent advances in lineage-tracing techniques and the ability to profile gene expression in small populations of cells have increased the understanding of how stem cells operate during hair growth and regeneration, the construction of functional follicles with cycling activity is still a great challenge for the hair research field and for translational and clinical applications. Given that hair formation and cycling rely on tightly coordinated epithelial-mesenchymal interactions, we thus review potential cell sources with HF-inducive capacities and summarize current bioengineering strategies for HF regeneration with functional restoration.

33773986
Hair Follicle Chemosensation: TRPM5 Signaling Is Required for Anagen Maintenance.


33917746
Engineered Skin Substitute Regenerates the Skin with Hair Follicle Formation.
Currently, engineered skin substitutes (ESS) are unable to regenerate cutaneous appendages. Recent studies have shown that skin-derived precursors (SKPs), which are extensively available, have the potential to induce hair follicle neogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that ESS consisting of culture-expanded SKPs and epidermal stem cells (Epi-SCs) reconstitute the skin with hair follicle regeneration after grafting into nude mice. SKPs seeded in a C-GAG matrix proliferated and expressed higher levels of hair induction signature genes-such as Akp2, Sox2, CD133 and Bmp6-compared to dermal fibroblasts. Moreover, when ESS prepared by seeding a mixture of culture-expanded murine SKPs and human adult Epi-SCs into a C-GAG matrix was grafted into full-thickness skin wounds in nude mice, black hairs were generated within 3 weeks. Immunofluorescence analysis showed that the SKPs were localized to the dermal papillae of the newly-formed hair follicle. Our results indicate that SKPs can serve as the hair-inductive cells in ESS to furnish it with hair genesis potential.

33986689
Minoxidil-Coated Lysozyme-Shelled Microbubbes Combined With Ultrasound for the Enhancement of Hair Follicle Growth: Efficacy In Vitro and In Vivo.
Lysozyme (Lyz) is an antimicrobial peptide, a safe adjunct, and it has been indicated that Lyz can promote vibrissae follicle growth by enhancing the hair-inductive capacity of dermal papilla cells in mice. The present study produced a new type of minoxidil (Mx)-coated antifungal Lyz-shelled microbubble (LyzMB) for inhibiting bacteria and allergies on the oily scalp. The potential of Mx-coated LyzMBs (Mx-LyzMBs) combined with ultrasound (US) and the role of LyzMB fragments in enhancing hair follicle growth were investigated. Mx grafted with LyzMBs were synthesized and the loading efficiency of Mx on cationic LyzMBs was 20.3%. The biological activity of Lyz in skin was determined using an activity assay kit and immunohistochemistry expression, and the activities in the US+Mx-LyzMBs group were 65.8 and 118.5 muU/mL at 6 and 18 h, respectively. In hair follicle cell culture experiments, the lengths of hair follicle cells were significantly enhanced in the US+Mx-LyzMBs group (108.2 +- 11.6 mum) compared to in the US+LyzMBs+Mx group (44.3 +- 9.8 mum) and the group with Mx alone (79.6 +- 12.0 mum) on day 2 (p < 0.001). During 21 days of treatment in animal experiments, the growth rates at days 10 and 14 in the US+Mx-LyzMBs group increased by 19.4 and 65.7%, respectively, and there were significant differences (p < 0.05) between the US+Mx-LyzMBs group and the other four groups. These findings indicate that 1-MHz US (applied at 3 W/cm2, acoustic pressure = 0.266 MPa) for 1 min combined with Mx-LyzMBs can significantly increase more penetration of Mx and LyzMB fragments into skin and enhance hair growth than Mx alone.

34150780
Roles of Melatonin in Goat Hair Follicle Stem Cell Proliferation and Pluripotency Through Regulating the Wnt Signaling Pathway.
Emerging studies show that melatonin promotes cashmere development through hypodermic implantation. However, the impact and underlying mechanisms are currently unknown. In vitro study has previously demonstrated that melatonin induces cashmere growth by regulating the proliferation of goat secondary hair follicle stem cells (gsHFSCs), but there is limited information concerning the effects of melatonin on cell pluripotency. It is also known that Wnt signaling may actively participate in regulating cell proliferation and stem cell pluripotency. Therefore, in the current investigation, goat hair follicle stem cells were exposed to multiple concentrations of melatonin and different culture times to reveal the relationship between melatonin and the activation of Wnt signaling. A proportionally high Catenin beta-1 (CTNNB1) response was induced by 500 ng/L of melatonin, but it was then suppressed with the dosages over 1,000 ng/L. Greater amounts of CTNNB1 entered the cell nuclei by extending the exposure time to 72 h, which activated transcription factor 4/lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 and promoted the expression of the proliferation-related genes C-MYC, C-JUN, and CYCLIND1. Moreover, nuclear receptor ROR-alpha (RORalpha) and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) were employed to analyze the underlying mechanism. RORalpha presented a sluggish concentration/time-dependent rise, but BMP4 was increased dramatically by melatonin exposure, which revealed that melatonin might participate in regulating the pluripotency of hair follicle stem cells. Interestingly, NOGGIN, which is a BMP antagonist and highly relevant to cell stemness, was also stimulated by melatonin. These findings demonstrated that melatonin exposure and/or NOGGIN overexpression in hair follicle stem cells might promote the expression of pluripotency markers Homeobox protein NANOG, Organic cation/carnitine transporter 4, and Hematopoietic progenitor cell antigen CD34. Our findings here provided a comprehensive view of Wnt signaling in melatonin stimulated cells and melatonin mediated stemness of gsHFSCs by regulating NOGGIN, which demonstrates a regulatory mechanism of melatonin enhancement on the growth of cashmere.

34581932
The combination of hair follicle-specific marker LHX2 and co-expressed marker can distinguish between sweat gland placodes and hair placodes in rat.
Eccrine sweat gland (ESG) and hair follicle (HF) are different skin appendages but share many common development characteristics. Although the morphology of adult ESG and HF is obviously different, it is difficult to distinguish ESG placodes from HFs placodes morphologically. To study the fate determination of ESG and HF, specific antigen markers for ESG placodes and HF placodes must be found first to distinguish them. In the study, we detected the expression of commonly used keratins 4, 5, 7-10, 12, 14, 15, 17-20, 27 and 73, and the reported ESG and HF specific markers, P-cadherin, Lymphoid enhancer factor 1 (LEF1), LIM Homeobox gene 2 (LHX2), Na+/K+-ATPase (NKA) and Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter 1 (NKCC1) in ESG and HF placodes by single-immunofluorescence staining and double-immunofluorescence staining. To further verify the results of immunofluorescence staining, Western blot (WB) was used to detect the differential antigen and some co-expressed antigens of ESG and HF placodes. The results showed that both ESG and HF placodes expressed K4/5/14/1517/18, P-cadherin and LEF1, neither expressed K7/8/9/10/12/19/20/27/73, NKA or NKCC1. HF placodes specifically expressed LHX2. Combination of LHX2 and co-expressed antigen K14, can distinguish ESG placodes from HF placodes. We conclude that LHX2 is a specific marker for HF placodes, and ESG placodes and HF placodes can be distinguished by double immunofluorescence staining of the specific marker LHX2 and the co-expressed markers, such as K4, K5, K14, K15, K17, K18, P-cadherin and LEF1.

34582748
Disruption of the endopeptidase ADAM10-Notch signaling axis leads to skin dysbiosis and innate lymphoid cell-mediated hair follicle destruction.
Hair follicles (HFs) function as hubs for stem cells, immune cells, and commensal microbes, which must be tightly regulated during homeostasis and transient inflammation. Here we found that transmembrane endopeptidase ADAM10 expression in upper HFs was crucial for regulating the skin microbiota and protecting HFs and their stem cell niche from inflammatory destruction. Ablation of the ADAM10-Notch signaling axis impaired the innate epithelial barrier and enabled Corynebacterium species to predominate the microbiome. Dysbiosis triggered group 2 innate lymphoid cell-mediated inflammation in an interleukin-7 (IL-7) receptor-, S1P receptor 1-, and CCR6-dependent manner, leading to pyroptotic cell death of HFs and irreversible alopecia. Double-stranded RNA-induced ablation models indicated that the ADAM10-Notch signaling axis bolsters epithelial innate immunity by promoting beta-defensin-6 expression downstream of type I interferon responses. Thus, ADAM10-Notch signaling axis-mediated regulation of host-microbial symbiosis crucially protects HFs from inflammatory destruction, which has implications for strategies to sustain tissue integrity during chronic inflammation.

34745427
Administration of Nrf-2-Modified Hair-Follicle MSCs Ameliorates DSS-Induced Ulcerative Colitis in Rats.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a common chronic nonspecific intestinal inflammation of unknown etiology associated with a low cure rate and a high relapse rate. Hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (HF-MSCs) are a class of pluripotent stem cells that have differentiation potential and strong proliferation ability. Nuclear factor red system related factor (Nrf-2) is a key factor in the oxidative stress response. Dextran sulfate sodium- (DSS-) induced rat UC models closely mimic human UC in terms of symptoms and histological changes. Animals were divided into five groups, including a healthy group and UC model rats treated with normal saline, Nrf-2, HF-MSCs, or Nrf-2-expressing HF-MSC group. Based on the expression of intestinal stem cells, inflammatory factors, anti-inflammatory factors, and disease activity index scores, Nrf-2-expressing HF-MSCs had the most obvious therapeutic effect under the same treatment regimen. This study provided a new potential clinical treatment option for ulcerative colitis.

34887980
[Spectacular regrowth of decalvating pelade treated with triamcinolone intramuscularly and topical hair follicle stimulator].


34911993
Inhibition of class I HDACs preserves hair follicle inductivity in postnatal dermal cells.
Induction of new hair follicles (HFs) may be an ultimate treatment goal for alopecia; however, functional cells with HF inductivity must be expanded in bulk for clinical use. In vitro culture conditions are completely different from the in vivo microenvironment. Although fetal and postnatal dermal cells (DCs) have the potential to induce HFs, they rapidly lose this HF inductivity during culture, accompanied by a drastic change in gene expression. This suggests that epigenetic regulation may be involved. Of the various histone deacetylases (HDACs), Class I HDACs are noteworthy because they are ubiquitously expressed and have the strongest deacetylase activity. This study revealed that DCs from postnatal mice rapidly lose HF inductivity and that this reduction is accompanied by a significant decrease in histone H3 acetylation. However, MS-275, an inhibitor of class I HDACs, preserves HF inductivity in DCs during culture, increasing alkaline phosphatase activity and upregulating HF inductive genes such as BMP4, HEY1, and WIF1. In addition, the inhibition of class I HDACs activates the Wnt signaling pathway, the most well-described molecular pathway in HF development, via increased histone H3 acetylation within the promoter region of the Wnt transcription factor LEF1. Our results suggest that class I HDACs could be a potential target for the neogenesis of HFs.

35052373
Identification of the Key Genes Associated with the Yak Hair Follicle Cycle.
The development of hair follicles in yak shows significant seasonal cycles. In our previous research, transcriptome data including mRNAs and lncRNAs in five stages during the yak hair follicles (HFs) cycle were detected, but their regulation network and the hub genes in different periods are yet to be explored. This study aimed to screen and identify the hub genes during yak HFs cycle by constructing a mRNA-lncRNA co-expression network. A total of 5000 differently expressed mRNA (DEMs) and 729 differently expressed long noncoding RNA (DELs) were used to construct the co-expression network, based on weighted genes co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Four temporally specific modules were considered to be significantly associated with the HFs cycle of yak. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis revealed that the modules are enriched into Wnt, EMC-receptor interaction, PI3K-Akt, focal adhesion pathways, and so on. The hub genes, such as FER, ELMO1, PCOLCE, and HOXC13, were screened in different modules. Five hub genes (WNT5A, HOXC13, DLX3, FOXN1, and OVOL1) and part of key lncRNAs were identified for specific expression in skin tissue. Furthermore, immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting results showed that the expression location and abundance of DLX3 and OVOL1 are changed following the process of the HFs cycle, which further demonstrated that these two hub genes may play important roles in HFs development.

35054510
Tissue Engineering and Regeneration of the Human Hair Follicle in Androgenetic Alopecia: Literature Review.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is an androgen-dependent process and represents the most frequent non-scarring alopecia. Treatments for AGA do not always achieve a satisfactory result for the patient, and sometimes cause side effects that lead to discontinuation of treatment. AGA therapeutics currently includes topical and oral drugs, as well as follicular unit micro-transplantation techniques. Tissue engineering (TE) is postulated as one of the possible future solutions to the problem and aims to develop fully functional hair follicles that maintain their cyclic rhythm in a physiological manner. However, despite its great potential, reconstitution of fully functional hair follicles is still a challenge to overcome and the knowledge gained of the key processes in hair follicle morphogenesis and biology has not yet been translated into effective replacement therapies in clinical practice. To achieve this, it is necessary to research and develop new approaches, techniques and biomaterials. In this review, present and emerging hair follicle bioengineering strategies are evaluated. The current problems of these bioengineering techniques are discussed, as well as the advantages and disadvantages, and the future prospects for the field of TE and successful hair follicle regeneration.

35209207
Regulation of Cytokines and Dihydrotestosterone Production in Human Hair Follicle Papilla Cells by Supercritical Extraction-Residues Extract of Ulmus davidiana.
This study was conducted to examine the anti-hair loss mechanism of the supercritical fluid extraction-residues extract of Ulmus davidiana by the regulation of cytokine production and hormone function in human dermal follicle papilla cells (HDFPCs). To investigate the modulatory effects on H2O2-induced cytokines, we measured transforming growth factor-beta and insulin-like growth factor 1 secreted from HDFPCs. To investigate the regulatory effects of supercritical extraction-residues extract of Ulmus davidiana on dihydrotestosterone hormone production, cells were co-incubated with high concentrations of testosterone. The supercritical extraction-residues extract of Ulmus davidiana significantly inhibited the secretion of transforming growth factor-beta but rescued insulin-like growth factor 1 in a dose-dependent manner. The supercritical extraction-residues extract of Ulmus davidiana markedly reduced dihydrotestosterone production. These results suggest that the supercritical fluid extract residues of Ulmus davidiana and their functional molecules are candidates for preventing human hair loss.

35315371
Bulboma: A Benign Keratosis With Differentiation Toward the Lower Segment of the Hair Follicle.
ABSTRACT: Bulboma is an appellation proposed to designate a distinctive solitary keratosis exhibiting differentiation toward the bulb of the lower segment of the hair follicle. Bulboma is composed of a papillated proliferation of epithelial cells beneath which is a broad front of interconnected follicular papillae. Overlying these coalescing follicular papillae are follicular germinative cells ascending into matrical cells and supramatrical cells. Cells demonstrating differentiation toward Huxley's and Henle's layer of the inner root sheath at the level of the bulb are present including strikingly bright eosinophilic trichohyalin granules and the blue-grey corneocytes of the stem. There is overlying hypergranulosis and orthokeratosis. The clinical and histopathological findings in 4 cases of bulboma, a rare, benign solitary keratosis are presented.

35359450
Intravenous Transplantation of Human Hair Follicle-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells Ameliorates Trabecular Bone Loss in Osteoporotic Mice.
Background: Hair follicles harbor a rich autologous stem cell pool and human hair follicle-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hHF-MSCs) have multi-lineage differentiation potential. Many sources of MSCs include hHF-MSCs have been attractive candidates for cell therapy, regenerative medicine and tissue engineering. The present study is to explore the effect of intravenous transplantation of hHF-MSCs on bone mass in osteoporotic mice and its mechanism, and provides prospects for clinical applications for the treatment of osteoporosis with hHF-MSCs. Methods: Physically pull out about 20 hairs with intact hair follicles from the occipital area of the scalp of healthy volunteers, and extract hair follicle-derived fibroblast-like cells. These cells were cultured and characterized in vitro. Intravenous injection of hHF-MSCs was performed on ovariectomy-induced and age-related osteoporotic SCID mice for osteoporosis treatment. The mice were sacrificed 7 weeks after the second injection and samples were collected. The long bones and L1 vertebrae were collected for micro-CT scan, histomorphometry and immunohistochemical analysis. Peripheral serum were collected for ELISA analysis and antibody array. Results: Hair follicle-derived fibroblast-like cells were defined as hHF-MSCs. Intravenous transplantation of hHF-MSCs can better restores trabecular bone mass in osteoporotic mice. The double calcein labeling assay, trap staining of bones and ELISA analysis in peripheral serum showed enhanced bone formation and weakened bone resorption after transplantation. Antibody array and immunohistochemical analysis showed that several cytokines including OPG, Wnt2b, Noggin, VCAM-1 and RANKL might be involved in this process. Conclusion: Human HF-MSCs transplantation can combat trabecular bone loss induced by menopause and aging in mice. And the above mechanism that hHF-MSCs transplantation inhibits bone resorption and promote bone formation is related to OPG, Wnt2b, VCAM-1, Noggin and RANKL.

35387169
Sustained delivery of rhMG53 promotes diabetic wound healing and hair follicle development.
MG53 is an essential component of the cell membrane repair machinery, participating in the healing of dermal wounds. Here we develop a novel delivery system using recombinant human MG53 (rhMG53) protein and a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging gel to treat diabetic wounds. Mice with ablation of MG53 display defective hair follicle structure, and topical application of rhMG53 can promote hair growth in the mg53 -/- mice. Cell lineage tracing studies reveal a physiological function of MG53 in modulating the proliferation of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). We find that rhMG53 protects HFSCs from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis and stimulates differentiation of HSFCs into keratinocytes. The cytoprotective function of MG53 is mediated by STATs and MAPK signaling in HFSCs. The thermosensitive ROS-scavenging gel encapsulated with rhMG53 allows for sustained release of rhMG53 and promotes healing of chronic cutaneous wounds and hair follicle development in the db/db mice. These findings support the potential therapeutic value of using rhMG53 in combination with ROS-scavenging gel to treat diabetic wounds.

35478971
beta-Catenin Signaling Evokes Hair Follicle Senescence by Accelerating the Differentiation of Hair Follicle Mesenchymal Progenitors.
Rationale: beta-catenin signaling controls multiple fibroblast subsets, with its overactivity promoting the differentiation of hair follicle dermal stem cells (hfDSCs) and the hyperactivation of interfollicular fibroblasts. Understanding the concept of hfDSC activation and modulation offers hope towards the therapeutic armamentarium in dermatology and related comorbidities, as well as their potential applications in gerontology (the study of physiological aging). Having a comprehensive understanding in this stochastic process could also further yield important, novel insights into the molecular basis of skin aging to improve lifespan and preventing aging-related diseases. Methods: A new CD34CrePGR mouse line was generated. Through fate-tracing models and a series of beta-catenin genetic experiments, our study depicts how the wound environment increases phosphorylated beta-catenin in hfDSCs and facilitates their differentiation into dermal papilla (DP) and dermal sheath (DS). In mice carrying hfDSC-specific activated allele of beta-catenin, hfDSCs accelerated their differentiation into DP cells. Results: Notably, with beta-catenin stabilization in CD34-expressing cells and potential activation of canonical Wnt signaling, the mutant mice showed a brief increase of hair density in the short term, but over time leads to a senescence phenotype developing premature canities and thinning [hair follicle (HF) miniaturization]. Conclusion: beta-catenin signaling drove HF senescence by accelerating differentiation of CD34+ hfDSCs, resulting in phenotypes attributable to the differentiation of the hfDSCs into DP cells and the loss of their stem cell potential. Therefore, our study reveals that the regulation of beta-catenin signaling in hfDSCs may potentially become an important subject for future exploration in development of clinically effective therapies for hair loss treatment and an excellent model for revealing new therapeutic approaches to reverse aging or retarding the development of alopecia.

35718100
Bioprinting of hair follicle germs for hair regenerative medicine.
Hair regenerative medicine is a promising approach to treat hair loss. The replication of in vivo tissue configurations and microenvironments, such as hair follicle germs, has been studied to prepare tissue grafts for hair regenerative medicine. However, such approaches should be scalable, because a single patient with alopecia requires thousands of tissue grafts. In this paper, we propose an approach for the scalable and automated preparation of highly hair-inductive tissue grafts using a bioprinter. Two collagen droplets (2 microL each) containing mesenchymal and epithelial cells were placed adjacent to each other to fabricate hair-follicle-germ-like grafts. During three days of culture, the pairs of microgel beads were spontaneously contracted by cell traction forces, whereas the two cell types remained separated, where the densities of the cells and collagen were enriched more than 10 times. This approach allowed us to fabricate submillimeter objects printed with millimeter-order accuracy, facilitating scalable and automated tissue graft preparation. Because of mesenchymal-epithelial interactions, hair microgels (HMGs, i.e., collagen- and cell-enriched microgels) efficiently regenerate hair follicles and shafts when transplanted into the back skin of mice. However, the generated hair shafts mostly remain under the skin. Therefore, we printed microgel beads onto surgical suture guides arrayed on a stage. The microgel beads were contracted along with the suture guides in culture prior to transplantation. The guide-inserted HMGs significantly improved hair-shaft sprouting through the skin, owing to the control of the orientation of the HMGs transplanted into the skin. This approach is a promising strategy to advance hair regenerative medicine. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This study proposes an approach for the scalable and automated preparation of highly hair-inductive grafts using a bioprinter. Two collagen droplets containing mesenchymal and epithelial cells were placed adjacently. Cell traction forces caused the pairs of microgel beads to spontaneously contract in culture. Because of mesenchymal-epithelial interactions, hair microgels (HMGs) efficiently regenerated hair follicles on the back skin of mice. However, the generated hair shafts remained mostly beneath the skin. Therefore, we printed microgel beads onto surgical suture guides arrayed on a stage. The guide-inserted HMGs significantly improved hair-shaft sprouting through the skin owing to the control of the orientation of the HMGs in the skin. This approach represents a promising strategy for advancing hair regenerative medicine.

35915068
ROR2 regulates self-renewal and maintenance of hair follicle stem cells.
Hair follicles undergo cycles of regeneration fueled by hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). While beta-catenin-dependent canonical Wnt signaling has been extensively studied and implicated in HFSC activation and fate determination, very little is known about the function of beta-catenin-independent Wnt signaling in HFSCs. In this study, we investigate the functional role of ROR2, a Wnt receptor, in HFSCs. By analyzing Ror2-depleted HFSCs, we uncover that ROR2 is not only essential to regulate Wnt-activated signaling that is responsible for HFSC activation and self-renewal, but it is also required to maintain proper ATM/ATR-dependent DNA damage response, which is indispensable for the long-term maintenance of HFSCs. In analyzing HFSCs lacking beta-catenin, we identify a compensatory role of ROR2-PKC signaling in protecting beta-catenin-null HFSCs from the loss of stem cell pool. Collectively, our study unveils a previously unrecognized role of ROR2 in regulation of stem cell self-renewal and maintenance.

22870710
[Implantation of newborn mice skin cells with chamber method to construct a model of hair follicle development].
OBJECTIVE: To construct a convenient, reliable and visual model of hair follicle development to test the hair-inductive potential of follicular cells and investigate the molecular mechanism regulating hair follicle morphogenesis and cycling. METHODS: An open chamber was transplanted into the nude mice dorsal skin, dermal and epidermal cells isolated from newborn C57BL/6 mice skin were mixed at a specific ratio and then injected into the chamber together, 1 week after transplantation, the chamber was removed, and then, hair formation and regeneration after hair plucking was observed. RESULTS: 1 week after cells implantation, the wound was moist without apparent contraction and among that pink and translucent tissue was formed. 2 weeks after implantation, the wound healed completely. 3 weeks after implantation, black hair grew from the skin was observed. 4 weeks after implantation, thick and black hair grew from the skin vertically. Completely developed structure of hair follicle was observed with paraffin section and HE staining. 1 week after plucking, new hair had regrown. The ratio of cell component was varied, whereas the other component was fixed at 1 x 10(7) cells. When the number of epidermal cells was reduced to 1 x 10(6) cells, the efficiency of hair follicle reconstitution was mostly unchanged. On the other hand, the density of newly formed hair was diminished considerably by reducing the number of dermal cells to 5 x 10(6) cells or lower. Neither epidermal cells nor dermal cells transplanted alone formed hair follicle. CONCLUSIONS: Newborn mice skin cells transplanted by chamber method can construct a complete model of hair follicle development, which can be used to test the hair-inductive potential of follicular cells and investigate the molecular mechanism regulating hair follicle morphogenesis and cycling.
